In a preface, this author compared the difficulty of writing a book to the difficulty of sticking a tube in a dog and blowing it up like a balloon. For 10 points each:
Name this man who attacked “false” sequels to his most famous book in the preface to Part 2. At the beginning of that book by this man, the narrator says that he doesn’t want to remember the name of the village where it starts.
That novel by Cervantes is titled for this Spanish nobleman, who fancies himself a knight and tilts at some windmills.
Throughout Part 2 of Don Quixote, the Don keeps encountering people who’ve read Part 1, including this couple, who give Sancho Panza an island to govern. This couple is only known by their aristocratic titles; we need both members.
Miguel de Cervantes (Saavedra)
Don Quixote [or Alonso Quijano]
Duke AND Duchess &lt;JW&gt;
In one of this author’s novels, the narrator overhears an argument and imagines that one of its participants, Amy Bellette, is Anne Frank. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who introduced the character Nathan Zuckerman in the novel My Life as A Man. He also wrote Portnoy’s Complaint.
Roth finally won this American literary award in 1997, having won his first National Book Award in 1959. Colson Whitehead won this award in 2017 for The Underground Railroad.
Philip Roth, like many American writers, studied at a creative writing program in this state. That program in this state was the first MFA program in creative writing, and is now run by Lan Samantha Chang.
Philip (Milton) Roth
Pulitzer Prize for Fiction
Iowa Writers’ Workshop &lt;JW/MK&gt;
This poet was inspired by Walt Whitman to write Futurist odes under the name Álvaro de Campos. For 10 points each:
Name this early 20th-century poet whose “heteronym” of Ricardo Reis was used as the basis for a 1986 novel.
That novel was written by this Portuguese novelist, who died in 2010. He fictionalized the life of airship pioneer Bartolomeu de Gusmão in his novel Baltasar and Blimunda.
One of Saramago’s best-known novels retells the story of the Gospels from the perspective of this man, their protagonist. In the Bible, this man tells the Parables of the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan.
Fernando (António Nogueira) Pessoa
José (de Sousa) Saramago
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined portion; accept The Gospel According to Jesus Christ or O Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo] &lt;JR&gt;
This character finds an island where men become birds once a month. For 10 points each:
Name this character who describes his seven voyages to a porter with the same name. This man was thrown into a pit with his wife’s corpse and defeats the Old Man of the Sea by getting him drunk.
The tales of Sinbad, Ali Baba, and Aladdin appear in this collection of stories, which are narrated by Scheherazade to her husband Shariyar to delay her execution.
On his second voyage, Sinbad obtains a large number of these items by strapping some meat to his back and letting a roc carry him to a valley full of them.
Sinbad the Sailor [or Sindbad]
One Thousand and One Nights [or The Arabian Nights; or Alf layla wa-layla]
diamonds [prompt on gemstones] &lt;HK&gt;
This poet supposedly wrote one poem by whittling a much longer poem down to only fourteen words. For 10 points each:
Name this American Modernist poet who described “the apparition of these faces in the crowd” as “petals on a wet, black bough” in “In a Station of the Metro.” This Fascist and virulent anti-Semite also wrote the Cantos.
Pound, like Amy Lowell, developed the Imagist style by translating poetry in this language. Pound’s Cantos unusually includes writing in this language, which Pound wrongly thought was written with pictographs.
Pound was an early champion of this bisexual Imagist poet, who asks the sea to “whirl your pointed pines, / splash your great pines / on our rocks,” in the poem “Oread.”
Ezra (Weston Loomis) Pound
Classical Chinese [or hanyu; or zhongwen]
H.D. [or Hilda Doolittle] &lt;JW&gt;
This play’s male leads use the excuse of “bunburying” to get out of commitments. For 10 points each:
Name this comedy by Oscar Wilde, in which Jack and Algernon both assume the title name to woo Gwendolyn and Cecily. In it, Lady Bracknell is shocked to discover that the orphaned Jack was found in a “handbag.”
The Importance of Being Earnest is often described using this term, which refers to absurd comedies with improbably elaborate plots and wild exaggerations.
Fill in the missing word from this quotation. When Jack reveals that he’s an orphan, Lady Bracknell tells him that: “To lose one parent may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose both looks like [this word].”
The Importance of Being Earnest
farces
carelessness &lt;JR&gt;
The mother of this novel’s protagonist at one point has him put on his deceased elder brother’s suit. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which a coal miner’s son ends up rejecting relationships with Miriam and Clara due to his passion for his mother.
Sons and Lovers was written by this English author, who was the subject of an obscenity trial for his Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
Sons and Lovers is often classified as this kind of coming-of-age novel, exemplified by James Joyce’s Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Sons and Lovers
D(avid) H(erbert) Lawrence
bildungsroman &lt;JR&gt;
This story’s protagonist sobs “Forgive my hat” after seeing a man whose “sleeping face” seems to say “This is just as it should be. I am content.” For 10 points each:
Name this story whose protagonist has an existential crisis while delivering a basket of leftovers.
“The Garden Party” is by Katherine Mansfield, whose husband, John Middleton Murry was mocked as “Denis Burlap” in this man’s novel Point Counter Point. He also wrote The Doors of Perception.
Huxley is best known for this dystopian novel, in which John the Savage hangs himself.
“The Garden Party”
Aldous (Leonard) Huxley
Brave New World &lt;WJ&gt;     Tiebreaker
One of these <em>two</em> characters calls the other “A great…big…fat…FLOP!” For 10 points each:
Name these two characters, who are named for a U.S. President and a First Lady. One of them tells the other “you're a blank, a cipher” after declaring “if you existed I'd divorce you.”
George and Martha terrorize Nick and Honey in this extremely long 1962 play. Although this play was selected to win the 1963 Pulitzer, the advisory board balked at its profanity and decided to just not give out any award at all.
Edward Albee’s portrayal of a failing marriage in Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? came two years before this older playwright re-lived his own divorce in After the Fall. This man wrote The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
George AND Martha
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Arthur (Asher) Miller &lt;JR&gt;
This play ends with a silent scene in which the actors stand perfectly still with wide open mouths and goggling eyes. For 10 points each:
Name this comedy, in which a minor civil servant impersonates the title character to extort bribes from a small town.
The Government Inspector premiered ten years before this other Russian man’s play A Month in the Country. In one of his novels, a nihilistic medical student says “A decent chemist is twenty times more useful than any poet.”
In Gogol’s The Government Inspector, the Mayor “breaks” this theatrical construct by asking the audience “What are you laughing at?” This term refers to an imaginary divider between the onstage characters and the crowd.
The Government Inspector [or The Inspector General; accept any translation indicating an Inspector; or Revizor] (by Nikolai Gogol)
Ivan (Sergeyevich) Turgenev (The novel is Fathers and Sons.)
fourth wall &lt;JR&gt;
This novel’s protagonist becomes a delivery boy for a DVD rental company and then starts a bottled water company. For 10 points each,
Name this 2013 novel by Mohsin Hamid, which is narrated exclusively in the second person.
In Hamid’s novel Exit West, Saeed is struck by Nadia’s choice to wear hijab, which is forbidden by the government of this country in the novel Snow. An author from this country wrote My Name is Red.
That author, Orhan Pamuk, wrote about Ottoman-Italian relations in The White Castle. Similarly, the novel The Enchantress of Florence fictionalizes both Mughal court and this Italian author of the political treatise The Prince.
How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia
Republic of Turkey [or Türkiye Cumhuriyeti]
Niccolò (di Bernardo dei) Machiavelli &lt;HK&gt;
The second of two girls plans to “abash” the title character with cloth in this author’s poem “The Plot Against the Giant.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet, whose debut collection Harmonium also includes “Le Monocle de Mon Oncle,” “The Emperor of Ice-Cream,” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
Stevens’ poem “Peter Quince at the Clavier” retells the story of Susanna, which is included in some versions of this book of the Bible. In this book the “writing on the wall” appears during Belshazzar’s feast.
Stevens’s poem “Sunday Morning” calls this thing the “mother of beauty,” claiming that “from [this thing] alone shall come fulfilment to our dreams / And our desires.”
Wallace Stevens
Book of Daniel
death &lt;MK&gt;
This poem becomes markedly more morbid around the thirty-sixth of its fifty-five stanzas. For 10 points each:
Name this elegy by Percy Shelley on the death of his friend, John Keats. It compares life to a “dome of many-coloured glass” that “stains the white radiance of eternity.”
“Adonaïs” was heavily influenced by this earlier elegy, which declares “Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil” and describes “Flames in the forehead of morning sky.” It was written in 1637 after the death of Edward King.
Milton’s “Lycidas” is narrated by a character with this profession, which features in “pastoral” poetry. In The Winter’s Tale, Perdita is set to be married at a sheep-shearing festival after being raised by one of these people,
“Adonaïs”
“Lycidas” (by John Milton)
shepherds [accept swains; prompt on farmers] &lt;JW&gt;
This man is stared at in court by an old woman whom he earlier saw compulsively examining checklists in a restaurant. For 10 points each:
Name this character who, on a dazzlingly bright, hot day, shoots a knife-wielding man on the beach. At the end of the novel, he discovers the “benign indifference of the universe,” hoping for a big, hateful crowd at his execution.
Meursault begins the novel The Stranger with this almost sociopathically matter-of-fact sentence.
The Stranger was written by this Algerian-French author, who also explored his Existentialist philosophy of Absurdism in books like The Myth of Sisyphus
Meursault [prompt on descriptions like “the narrator of The Stranger”]
“Mother died today.” [or “Today, mother is dead.” or “Aujourd’hui, maman est morte.”; accept “Maman died today.”]
Albert Camus &lt;JR&gt;
This story begins by telling us that its protagonist drowned, before the narrator finds his journals in his briefcase. For 10 points each,
Name this short story in which the title object slowly becomes a human, and then demands things like rice with chicken and numerous buckets of water.
The author of “Chac Mool,” Carlos Fuentes, also fictionalized the death of this American author in The Old Gringo. This man wrote the satirical Devil’s Dictionary, as well as the story “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.”
“An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge” is set during this historical event, which was also the setting of Bierce’s story “The Horseman in the Sky.”
“Chac Mool”
Ambrose (Gwinnett) Bierce
American Civil War &lt;HK&gt;
This man called the title country a “cultured hell that tests my youth” in the poem “America.” For 10 points each:
Name this American who declared “O kinsmen! we must meet the common foe!” in the poem “If We Must Die.”
Claude McKay was a leading poet in the “Renaissance” named for this New York City neighborhood.
McKay concludes “I knew her self was not in that strange place” in a poem titled for a “Harlem” one of these performers. W.B. Yeats’s [yates’s] “Among School Children” asks “How can we know?” this kind of person from the action they perform.
Claude McKay [or Festus Claudius McKay]
Harlem [accept Harlem Renaissance]
dancer [accept “Harlem Dancer”; accept “How can we know the dancer from the dance?”] &lt;JR&gt;
In Act 1, Scene 2, this character defeats the wrestler Charles, but then declares to himself “Thou art overthrown!” after falling in love. For 10 points each:
Name this character who hangs up terrible poems like “Why should this a desert be? / For it is unpeopled? No: / Tongues I'll hang on every tree, / That shall civil sayings show” on the trees in the forest.
Orlando and Rosalind flee to the Forest of Arden in this Shakespeare comedy. In this play, the melancholy Jaques says that “one man in his time plays many parts, / His acts being seven ages.”
In As You Like It, Rosalind and Celia both disguise themselves in this fashion before entering the forest. Viola is confused for her twin brother Sebastian after disguising herself this way in Twelfth Night.
Orlando
As You Like It
cross-dressing [accept reasonable descriptions and more specific answers like dressing as a man] &lt;JR&gt;    Tiebreaker
A broken leg prevents Clyde Dunbar from attending one of these events. For 10 points each:
Name this event officiated by Mr. Summers in a short story. At the end of that story, the “winner” Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death.
The box used for the lottery was usually stored in the post office, the grocery store, or in one of these places owned by Mr. Graves. In a William Faulkner story, Abner Snopes and his son burn down one of these buildings.
“The Lottery” and other works by Shirley Jackson are often described with this Medieval-inspired term for horror fiction like Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein. Flannery O’Connor wrote in the “Southern” variety of this style.
“The Lottery”
barn [accept “Barn Burning”]
Gothic horror [accept Southern Gothic] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Christian hymns:
John Newton converted to Christianity and wrote hymns such as “Glorious Things of Thee Are Spoken” after having spent several years working in this industry. People trafficked in this industry sang songs called spirituals.
Newton is best known for writing this autobiographical hymn, which declares “how sweet the sound” of the title phenomenon.
Horatio Spafford wrote this hymn after losing his investments and six of his children. This hymn begins by describing “peace like a river” that “attendeth my way”.
slave trade [or slavery]
“Amazing Grace”
“It is Well With My Soul” &lt;MK&gt;
The term “problem play” was taken from discussions of <em>this</em> author’s work and later used by Shakespeare scholars. For 10 points each:
Name this Naturalist playwright who scandalized society across Europe by openly discussing the STD syphilis in his play Ghosts.
Like Hedda Gabler, this Ibsen play features an “independent woman,” who feels trapped in the title, metaphorically prison-like environment. It ends with Nora Helmer slamming the door on her husband Torvald.
Ibsen was an early staple for this theater company, which was founded in 1898 by method acting pioneer Constantin Stanislavski.
Henrik (Johan) Ibsen
A Doll’s House [or A Doll House; or Et dukkehjem]
Moscow Art Theatre [or Moscow Art Academic Theatre; or Moscovsky Akademichesky Khudozhestvenny Teatr or Moscovsky Khudozhestvenny Teatr] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about chess in literature:
A member of this ethnicity named Waverly takes up chess in Amy Tan’s The Joy Luck Club, which is about members of this ethnicity in America.
A prisoner is forced to play chess with his family members as the pieces in this author’s story “All the King’s Horses.” In another of his stories, Billy the Poet goes off his birth control pills and rapes a Suicide Parlor hostess.
This novel opens with the suicide of Jeremiah de Saint-Amour, a crippled atheist who is described as a photographer of children and a player of chess. In this novel, Fermina is married to Dr. Juvenal Urbino.
Chinese-Americans [accept Asian-Americans]
Kurt Vonnegut, (Jr.) (That story is “Welcome to the Monkey House.”)
Love in the Time of Cholera [or El amor en los tiempos del cólera] (by Gabriel García Márquez) &lt;JW&gt;
This text’s first book puts forth the unfortunate theory of “natural slavery.” For 10 points each:
Name this text which classifies full democracy as a harmful “deviation” from “polity,” or representative government by many people.
Aristotle’s Politics seems to be a follow-up to his “Nicomachean” text on this subject. Aristotle’s approach to this subject centers on developing virtue and achieving eudaimonia, or “human flourishing.”
Aristotle’s Ethics stresses this kind of practical judgement, which he contrasts with sophia or “wisdom” and nous or “intellect.” Aristotle thought that this virtue is key in politics, since it’s the skill of making good decisions. We need the original Greek term.
Aristotle’s Politics [or Politika]
ethics [accept Nicomachean Ethics or Ethika Nikomacheia]
phronesis &lt;JR&gt;
In this decade, the American jazz dancer Josephine Baker shocked Parisian audiences by dancing in a skirt made only of bananas. For 10 points each:
Name this decade, in which women dubbed “flappers” started wearing bobbed hair and shorter, knee-length skirts. Women gained the right to vote in America at the very beginning of this decade.
The end of the 1920s saw the introduction of this hugely popular form of entertainment, which was kicked off by Al Jolson’s The Jazz Singer.
The first wave of this event, which was described in the book The Warmth of Other Suns, occured in the 1920s. This event was spurred by papers like the Chicago Defender.
1920s
sound films [accept reasonable descriptions; accept talkies; prompt on partial answer]
Great Migration &lt;SPQR&gt;   Tiebreaker
In the last scene of this play, the protagonist puts on a kimono, wig, and makeup, and commits hara-kiri. For 10 points each:
Name this play, which centers on a French diplomat who disastrously convinces the American government that their troops will be welcome in Vietnam. Its protagonist falls in love with a cross-dressing theater performer.
M. Butterfly’s protagonist falls in love with a performer of this city’s namesake traditional opera style. Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy and other “revolutionary” operas in this city’s style were promoted in the 1940s.
David Henry Hwang, the author of M. Butterfly, has also written many of these texts for composers like Bright Sheng. This originally Italian word is the name for the text sung in a Western opera or oratorio.
M. Butterfly (by David Henry Hwang)
Beijing Opera [accept Peking Opera; or Jingju]
librettos [or libretti] &lt;JR&gt;
This character falls in love with Odette de Crécy and is a reluctant participant in Madame de Verdurin’s soirées. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who obsesses over a “little phrase” by the composer Vinteuil in a section titled for him “in Love.” His “way” is contrasted with the “Guermantes way” in Marcel Proust’s In Search of Lost Time.
At the very beginning of Swann’s Way, the narrator remembers doing this action, which leads him to further memories of his home in Combray. A description is fine.
A major theme of the volume The Guermantes Way is the Dreyfus Affair, which prompted this author to write the pamphlet J’Accuse! This pioneer of Naturalism included Nana and Germinal in a series of twenty novels.
Charles Swann [accept Swann’s Way or Swann in Love or Un amour de Swann]
going to bed [accept any answer describing falling asleep]
Émile (Édouard Charles Antoine) Zola (The series is Les Rougons-Macquart.) &lt;JW&gt;
The first Roman proponent of this genre was Marcus Aemilius Scaurus. For 10 points each:
Name this genre of the general Lutatius Catulus’s text De Consulatu Suo et de Rebus Gestis Suis. Saint Augustine’s Confessions inspired many later works in this genre.
In Book 2 of the Confessions, Augustine recalls stealing these things from a neighbor. Augustine explains that he didn’t steal these things because he particularly wanted them, but just to do something bad.
Elsewhere in his Confessions, Augustine describes how this author’s Hortensius encouraged him to study philosophy. This man wrote a series of speeches inspired by Demosthenes’s Philippics.
autobiography [accept memoirs; prompt on biography]
pears [prompt on fruits]
Marcus Tullius Cicero [accept Tully] &lt;SPQR&gt;
Islamic styles of this art form including the archaic Kufic form and the more recent Maghribi. For 10 points each,
Name this art made out of writing, which is especially prominent in East Asian and Islamic cultures.
One way in which calligraphic styles were spread throughout the Islamic world was through the addition of verses from the Qur’an to these objects, especially the Umayyad dinar.
Islamic calligraphic patterns have been an inspiration for artists using this fabric-dyeing technique popular in Southeast Asia. This technique uses tools called a cap or a canting to apply wax to fabric as a dye-repellent.
calligraphy
coins
batik &lt;HK&gt;
The title character of this novel is not even born until the third of its nine volumes. For 10 points each:
Name this bizarre novel by Laurence Sterne, whose title character is accidentally circumcised by a window sash.
This gentle uncle of Tristram has a more important role in the plot than Tristram himself for the early part of the book. This man obsesses over military strategy after being wounded in the groin in battle.
This man’s biographer James Boswell wrote a “Poetic Epistle” asking “Who has not Tristram Shandy read? / Is any mortal so ill-bred?” This likely sufferer of Tourette’s compiled the first comprehensive English dictionary.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
Uncle Toby
Dr. Samuel Johnson &lt;JW&gt;
This novel’s female heroine writes a long elegy for some flower petals that she buries. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose male hero breaks the heart of that heroine by marrying a more conventional, highly scholarly cousin. Its standard English translation by David Hawkes runs to well over 2,000 pages.
Dream of the Red Chamber uses this literary device, in which the main plot is set within another story. In the Thousand and One Nights, the story of Scheherazade and king Shahryar constitutes one of these devices.
David Hawkes’s classic translation of Dream of the Red Chamber was made for this British publisher, who pioneered paperback publishing with their orange-and-black “Classics” series.
Dream of the Red Chamber [or A Dream of Red Mansions; or Hong lou meng; accept The Story of the Stone]
frame story [or frame narrative or frame tale; prompt on descriptions like story-within-a-story]
Penguin Books &lt;JR&gt;
This man’s wits are retrieved when Astolfo travels to the moon, where all things lost on Earth can be found. For 10 points each:
Name this character from a number of European epics, including poems in which he is “furious” and “in love.” In a French “song” of him, this Christian knight fights a Saracen army that has invaded Charlemagne’s empire.
Orlando Furioso was written by this Italian Renaissance poet. He also coined the term “humanism.”
This character from Orlando Furioso is raised as a Saracen warrior before falling in love with the Christian woman Bradamante. He eventually converts to Christianity.
Orlando [or Roland; accept Orlando Furioso or The Song of Roland or La Chanson de Roland]
Ludovico Ariosto
Ruggiero &lt;JW&gt;
In a poem, this figure is ignored by a “delicate ship” that “had somewhere to get to and calmly sailed on.” For 10 points each,
Name this figure who, in the poem “Musée des Beaux Arts,” is also ignored by a ploughman for whom his death “was not an important failure.”
“Musée de Beaux Arts” was written by this English poet, who wrote that “We must love each other or die” in “September 1, 1939.”
Auden also wrote an elegy for this man, whom he calls a “doctor” studying “fauna of the night,” which “needs our love.” In the poem, this “important Jew” “merely told the unhappy Present to recite the Past like a poetry lesson.”
Icarus
W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about plays that keep a specific number of actors onstage:
Only four actors are needed to put on a John Cariani play named for this U.S. state, which consists of 11 scenes for two actors each.
Reginald Rose dramatized backroom courthouse negotiations in a play named for this number of “Angry Men.”
Only one actor is needed for this kind of scene, in which a character speaks aloud to themself. One of these scenes begins with the line “O that this too too solid flesh would melt.”
Maine [accept Almost, Maine]
twelve [or Twelve Angry Men; accept Twelve Angry Jurors or Twelve Angry Women]
soliloquy [or soliloquies; prompt on monologues] (That line is from Hamlet’s first soliloquy.) &lt;JR&gt;
This poet has the speaker wryly comment “it does not look like me” at the end of her poem “Standing Female Nude.” For 10 points each:
Name this gay Scottish poet, the current Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom.
Duffy’s poem “Anne Hathaway” was inspired by this poet’s will, which gives Hathaway, his wife, his “second best bed.” Duffy’s poem “Prayer” uses this poet’s namesake sonnet form, consisting of three quatrains and a couplet.
Duffy has written numerous poems on this topic, including a poem quoting Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s lines: “How do I [do this action]? Let me count the ways.”
Carol Ann Duffy
William Shakespeare
love [accept “The Love Poem” or “How do I love thee?”] &lt;JR&gt;
Answer the following tetralogy of questions about tetralogies in American literature, for the stated number of points each:
For 10 points: This author included the novel them in the Wonderland Quartet. In a short story by this author, Connie is followed home from a diner by a man driving a golden convertible, who coerces her to go for a ride with him.
For 10 points: This novel is the first in a tetralogy by Lois Lowry. In it, Jonas is selected to become the Receiver of Memory in a dystopian future where color no longer exists.
For 5 points: This former high-school basketball player “is rich” and “at rest” in two volumes of a tetralogy named for him.. and For 5 points: The Rabbit novels were written by this novelist, who also wrote the short story “A&amp;P.”
Joyce Carol Oates (The short story is “Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?”)
The Giver
Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom [prompt on non-underlined parts] and John (Hoyer) Updike &lt;JW&gt;  Tiebreaker
A novel opens by telling us that a woman living in this city “woke at midnight” to the sound of her husband’s walking stick. For 10 points each:
Name this city in which that woman later breaks her collarbone after being hit by a car, provoking her husband’s wrath. Later in the novel, that woman’s pro-independence son is shot during a nationalist rally.
The Cairo Trilogy was written by this Egyptian author, who pioneered the Arabic-language novel with books like Children of Gebelawi and Midaq Alley.
In Palace of Desire, Ahmed becomes furious upon hearing that his increasingly irreligious son Kamal has published an article about this author of The Voyage of the Beagle. This man wrote The Origin of Species.
Cairo [or al-Qahirah or Kashromi]
Naguib Mahfouz
Charles (Robert) Darwin &lt;MK&gt;
This novel’s protagonist visits his old friend Mrs. Kenton in an attempt to bring her back to Darlington Hall. For 10 points each,
Name this novel, in which the butler Stevens remembers working for a Nazi sympathizer who fired his Jewish maids.
In The Remains of the Day, Stevens tries to add this skill to his “professional armoury” to ease interactions with his new American boss, and is disappointed when his attempts don’t go over particularly well. We need the exact term.
Like almost all of Ishiguro’s novels, The Remains of the Day adopts this narrative perspective. Charlotte Brontë’s Jane Eyre exemplifies this perspective with narratorial statements like “Reader, I married him.”
The Remains of the Day (by Kazuo Ishiguro)
banter
first-person &lt;HK&gt;
A poet in this language wrote that “we arrive here improvised / and leave without the chance to practice” in the poem “Nothing Twice.” For 10 points each:
Name this language of a poet who turned to a more personal style in her post-Thaw 1957 collection Calling Out to Yeti.
Wislawa Szymborska’s [vee-SWAH-va shim-BORE-skah’s] fellow Polish poet Czeslaw Milosz [CHEH-swahff MEE-woash] spent the latter part of his life in this U.S. state, where Allen Ginsberg wrote “Howl” and Lawrence Ferlinghetti runs the City Lights Bookstore.
Both Szymborska and Milosz wrote poems mocking this Soviet dictator, who was mocked by Osip Mandelstam in a namesake “epigram.” This man was represented by Napoleon in George Orwell’s Animal Farm.
Polish [or polski]
California
Joseph (Vissarionovich) Stalin &lt;JR&gt;
In one book by this author, the protagonist’s cousin Mary Agnes tries to force the protagonist to view her uncle’s body at his funeral, prompting her to bite Mary Agnes. For 10 points each:
Name this author of books like Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage. Another of her books contains chapters titled “The Flats Road,” “Heirs of the Living Body,” and “Age of Faith.”
Alice Munro writes for this magazine, which called her “Our Chekov” after she won the Nobel. Jhumpa Lahiri first published “Interpreter of Maladies” in this magazine, which has a monocled mascot named “Eustace Tilley.”
Alice Munro, like Margaret Atwood, is an author from this Commonwealth country.
Alice (Ann) Munro
The New Yorker
Canada &lt;HK&gt;
Many of the people with a formative influence on this movement were brought together by the sisters Paulette and Jane Nardal. For 10 points each:
Name this literary movement that was analyzed in the 1948 essay “Black Orpheus.”
The term négritude was coined by Aimé Césaire, whose best-known play is a postcolonial response to this Shakespeare play, portraying Prospero as a white slave owner, and Ariel and Caliban as his slaves.
A key influence on early négritude was this other literary movement, which was led by André Breton [“on”-DRAY bruh-TAW]. This movement was inspired by Sigmund Freud’s ideas about free association and the unconscious.
négritude
The Tempest [accept Une Tempête]
Surrealism &lt;JR&gt;
Near the end, this book’s protagonist begins to question her sexuality after reading Radclyffe Hall’s <em>The Well of Loneliness</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this book whose protagonist encounters a group of children her mother calls “powhitetrash.”
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings was a memoir by this American author.
Maya Angelou was the second poet commissioned to read at a presidential inauguration, after this man read “The Gift Outright” for John F. Kennedy. This man also wrote “The Road Not Taken.”
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
Maya Angelou
Robert Frost &lt;JR&gt;
According to the novel, this action was performed by Queen Margot after the death of Joseph de la Mole. For 10 points each:
Name this action which Joseph’s descendant Mathilde de la Mole does shortly after the execution of Julien Sorel. A description is fine.
Julien Sorel is guillotined at the end of this novel, which was published in 1830 to attack society before that year’s revolution.
Like Stendhal, this other French author used the years around the 1830 Revolution as the setting for his novel Les Misérables.
keeping his head [accept more specific answers that involve kissing or holding his severed head; prompt on answers like “stealing his body”]
The Red and the Black [or Le Rouge et le noir] (by Stendhal.)
Victor (Marie) Hugo &lt;JR&gt;
Guadeloupean author Maryse Condé received a “New Academy” award as an indirect result of this action. For 10 points each:
Name this one-off action that was taken in May 2018 after revelations of sexual assault perpetrated by the photographer Jean-Claude Arnault. A description is fine.
The Literature Nobel was postponed by the “Academy” of this Scandinavian country, which awards the prize.
After interruptions during the World Wars, the first hiccup for the Literature Nobel was when this Soviet author was forced to refuse the prize. In this man’s only novel, the title doctor writes poetry and falls in love with Lara.
postponing the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature [accept ]
Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
Boris (Leonidovich) Pasternak (The novel is Doctor Zhivago.) &lt;JR&gt;
The speaker of this poem says “gr-r-r” several times, asks “what’s the Greek name for Swine’s Snout?” and plots to send Brother Lawrence to hell by planting a “scrofulous French novel” on him. For 10 points each:
Name this vitriolic poem in the voice of an unnamed monk.
“Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” was written by this author of “My Last Duchess,” who married Elizabeth Barrett.
“Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” and “My Last Duchess” are both examples of this poetic form often used by Browning. In this genre of poem, a specific fictional or historical persona directs a speech at some kind of audience.
“Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” [prompt on partial answer]
Robert Browning
dramatic monologue [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JW&gt;    Tiebreaker
In a fit of madness, the protagonist attempts to throw his fiancée Clara over a ledge at the end of this story. For 10 points each:
Identify this short story, in which Nathanael associates the alchemist Coppelius with the title eye-stealing legendary figure.
This German Romantic author of “The Sandman” loved music so much he changed his third name to “Amadeus.” His story “The Nutcracker and the Mouse King” was adapted into the Tchaikovsky ballet.
In a novel by Hoffmann, pages from a book about the composer Johannes Kreisler are wildly mixed up with the memoirs of one of these animals. One of these animals named for Cheshire grins creepily in Alice in Wonderland.
“The Sandman” [or “Der Sandmann”]
E(rnst) T(heodor) A(madeus) Hoffmann [or Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffmann]
cats [accept Cheshire Cat; accept The Life and Opinions of the Tomcat Murr or Lebens-Ansichten des Katers Murr] &lt;MK&gt;
This novel’s protagonist finds herself unable to finish an English thesis on the symbolism of twins in <em>Finnegans Wake</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this semi-autobiographical novel, in which the protagonist’s heart repeatedly seems to say “I am I am I am.” Its protagonist is shown headlines like “SCHOLARSHIP GIRL MISSING. MOTHER WORRIED” by Joan.
The Bell Jar was the only novel by this American author, who’s better known for poems like “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy.”
The Bell Jar’s Esther Greenwood receives this treatment for depression from Dr. Gordon, who administers it incorrectly and thereby worsens her condition. Dr. Nolan is more successful in administering this treatment.
The Bell Jar
Sylvia Plath
electroshock therapy [or shock treatment; or electroconvulsive therapy] &lt;JW&gt;
In her “Decalogue of the Artist,” this poet wrote that “You shall love beauty, which is the shadow of God over the Universe.” For 10 points,
Name this Chilean poet, the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in literature. She’s known for a collection inspired by the suicide of her lover Romelio Ureta, as well the collections Desolación and Ternura.
Mistral is best known for a collection of these lyric poems “of Death.” Pablo Neruda wrote a collection of 100 of these 14-line poems about love.
As its subtitle suggests, Mistral’s collection Ternura consists of works for and about these people, poems which famously could not have drawn on her real-life experience. A description is fine.
Gabriela Mistral [or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga]
sonnets [accept Sonnets of Death or Sonetos de la Muerte or 100 Love Sonnets or Cien sonetos de amor]
children [accept reasonable synonyms like kids or babies] &lt;HK&gt;
This object is drilled full of holes overnight by Vardaman. For 10 points each:
Name this object that’s built by Cash in plain sight, despite Jewel’s objections.
Addie Bundren’s coffin is taken to Jefferson in this novel, in which Vardaman declares “my mother is a fish.” This 1930 novel uses over a dozen different narrators.
As I Lay Dying is set in the fictional county of “Yok·na·pa·taw·pha” in this Southern state, which was home to the novel’s author, William Faulkner
Addie Bundren’s coffin
As I Lay Dying
Mississippi &lt;JR&gt;  Tiebreaker
This insult is first used by a little girl to mock Amusa for following the orders of the white man Simon Pilkings. For 10 points each:
Give this insulting name that Olunde calls his father Elesin Oba after the latter fails to commit ritual suicide.
Simon Pilking’s intervention in Elesin Oba’s ritual suicide is at the center of this 1975 play by Wole Soyinka.
Wole Soyinka is an author from this West African country, which was also home to Chinua Achebe, the author of Things Fall Apart.
“eater of white left-overs”
Death and the King’s Horseman
Nigeria &lt;JR&gt;
At the end of this novel, the main character takes a copy of the New Testament out from under his pillow in a Siberian prison. For 10 points each,
Name this novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky, in which the student Rodion Raskolnikov murders a pawnbroker.
After murdering the pawnbroker, Raskolnikov dreams of a group of peasants torturing and eventually killing one of these animals.
Just like Raskolnikov was directly modelled on stories about Pierre François Lacenaire, this literary character was likely inspired by Sally Horner. This title character’s mother Charlotte is married by the unreliable narrator.
Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]
horses
Lolita [or Dolores Hayes (accept either)] &lt;HK&gt;
Before making a career as a working playwright, this author possibly worked as a spy in the 1660s. For 10 points each:
Name this Restoration playwright who depicted captain Willmore’s romantic adventures in Naples in the play The Rover. She has been called the first professional woman writer.
In a scene from The Rover, Willmore admires pictures of Angellica at one of these locations. In an earlier play, a scene at one of these locations includes lines like “a rose / By any other name would smell as sweet.”
That line is spoken by this Shakespearean protagonist, who also asks her lover “Wherefore art thou Romeo?”
Aphra Behn
balcony
Juliet Capulet [accept Romeo and Juliet] &lt;JR&gt;
After escaping from prison, this man took the name “Chevalier de Seingalt” and conned the Marquise d’Urfé into thinking that he could turn her into a young man. For 10 points each:
Name this legendarily womanizing Italian author of the 1798 memoir Histoire de ma vie.
Casanova is often described using this term, which was used in the 17th and 18th centuries to refer to debauched “rakes” like John Wilmot, the Earl of Rochester.
Casanova was born and imprisoned in this northern Italian city, whose “Most Serene Republic” was ruled by leaders called doges [DOH-jayz].
Giacomo (Girolamo) Casanova
libertines
Venice [or Venezia] &lt;JR&gt;
This book discusses the “laws that lay down who should be loved. And how. And how much.” For 10 points each,
Name this novel that calls 31 “Not old. Not young. But a viable die-able age.” One of its protagonists owns a watch with the time painted on, and is freaked out by a moth from a new species that her grandfather discovered.
The God of Small Things was written by this Indian author, who finally released her second novel, The Ministry of Utmost Happiness in 2017.
The inciting incident of The God of Small Things is the death of Sophie Moll, which occurs in this fashion. Virginia Woolf and Hamlet’s fiancée Ophelia both committed suicide in this manner.
The God of Small Things
(Suzanna) Arundhati Roy
drowning &lt;HK&gt;
This book’s speaker describes how the author of the novel <em>Life’s Adventure</em>, “broke the sentence” and “has broken the sequence … not for the sake of breaking, but for the sake of creating.” For 10 points each:
Name this book, whose author ruminates on the phrase “Chloe liked Olivia.” A theatrical adaptation of this work starred Eileen Atkins as its author.
A Room of One’s Own is an essay by this English Modernist and member of the Bloomsbury Group. She also wrote Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Mrs. Dalloway is often seen as using this Modernist technique, which uses free association and eschews standard grammar to convey an interior monologue.
A Room of One’s Own
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf [or (Adeline) Virginia Stephen]
stream-of-consciousness &lt;WJ&gt;
José Saramago imagined the romantic involvements of one of this author’s “heteronyms” in his novel <em>The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote a “factless autobiography” about Bernardo Soares, The Book of Disquiet.
Pessoa was a poet from this country. Saramago, another author from this country, followed the plight of characters from Spain and this country after the Iberian peninsula breaks off from Europe in The Stone Raft.
Portugal’s national epic, Luís Vaz de Camões’s [“loo-EESH VAZ de cam-OH-eesh”] The Lusiads, follows this “eloquent captain” as he travels to the Isle of Love to feast with Tethys. In it, this historical figure meets the Old Man of Restelo before sailing to India.
Fernando Pessoa
Portugal
Vasco da Gama &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
One of these events is immediately followed by “a fine crash from the piano” and a character’s insistence that a certain object “twisted…like a snake.” For 10 points each:
Name these events from a W.W. Jacobs short story. After the third one of these events, a woman frantically opens a door to reveal “a quiet and deserted road.”
In a story by this author, Groby Lington’s brother recounts how a monkey kills a parrot that screeches “Rats to you, sir.” The imaginative Vera convinces Framton that he is seeing ghosts in this author’s “The Open Window.”
Saki shares his real surname, Munro, with a short fiction author and 2013 Nobel laureate from this country. In a short story set in this country, Janet’s father identifies Jupiter’s moons from memory while in a Toronto hospital.
wishes from “The Monkey’s Paw” (prompt on wishes by asking “from what story?”)
Saki (or Hector Hugh Munro)
Canada &lt;R. Li, World Literature&gt;
At this location, a character reports seeing a ghost, and another character opens the window to let the ghost in. For 10 points each:
Name this estate owned by Heathcliff. This estate is adjacent to Thrushcross Grange, where Mr. Lockwood stays in the frame story of the novel in which it appears.
Wuthering Heights was written by Emily, a member of this family. Another member of this family, Charlotte, wrote Jane Eyre.
Heathcliff marries Isabella to take revenge on Catherine for marrying this character, Isabella’s brother. This character’s daughter Cathy eventually marries Heathcliff’s son, giving Heathcliff ownership of Thrushcross Grange.
Wuthering Heights
Brontë
Edgar Linton (prompt on Linton) &lt;Kao, British Literature&gt;
In a prologue to one work, the author sees two pigs die of this disease after coming across a poor man’s rag in the street. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which is combated in the city of Oran by the efforts of Jean Tarrou and Dr. Bernard Rieux in another work titled for it.
In this Giovanni Boccaccio collection, ten Florentines fleeing the Black Death tell stories about characters like Cepparello and the wife Griselda.
This author wrote a fake eyewitness account of the Great Plague of London in A Journal of the Plague Year. He published that novel under false initials to hide his identity since he was only five when the plague struck.
the plague (or the Black Death; or the Black Plague; or bubonic plague)
The Decameron
Daniel Defoe &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
The first section of this work describes the journey of King Gylfi and his discussion with three mysterious men thought to be Odin in disguise. For 10 points each:
Name this Old Norse work which describes the Norse pantheon and the creation and destruction of the world. This collection is contrasted with a similar work written in poetic verse.
The Poetic Edda is anonymous, but the Prose Edda was written in the early 13th century by this historian, poet, and politician. This author also wrote the Ynglinga [“ING-ling”] Saga.
Snorri was a member of the Althing, the parliament of this Nordic island nation, which currently meets in Reykjavík [“RAY-key-uh-vick”].
Prose Edda (or Younger Edda; accept but do NOT reveal Snorri’s Edda; prompt on Edda; anti-prompt [make less specific] on the Gylfaginning; do NOT accept or prompt on the “Poetic Edda”)
Snorri Sturluson (accept either underlined portion)
Iceland &lt;Duffy, Other Literature&gt;
In one novel, this animal lends its name to the sociopathic captain of the <em>Ghost</em>, who rescues Humphrey van Weyden from a shipwreck. For 10 points each:
Name this animal, a “sea”-variant of which titles the aforementioned novel. In another novel, the title character is the offspring of One Eye and a female one of these animals.
This author of The Sea-Wolf and White Fang also wrote a novel in which Buck accompanies John Thornton in the Klondike, The Call of the Wild.
A short story by London ends with the destitute Tom King crying after losing to Sandel in this sport. Robert Cohn used to play this sport at Princeton in Ernest Hemingway’s The Sun Also Rises.
wolves (generously prompt on dogs)
Jack London
boxing &lt;R. Li, American Literature&gt;
The name of this language is taken from the Russian word for “teen,” and its words are derived from a mixture of Russian, Romany, English, Malay, and Cockney rhyming slang. For 10 points each:
Name this language that often emphasizes the pronunciation of words, turning “apologies” into appy polly loggies. Slang words in this language include devotchka for a girl and droog for a friend.
Nadsat is spoken by the teenage gangs of this novel. This novel’s author opposed the decision to cut its final chapter in its first American edition, which featured the “ultraviolent” Beethoven-loving Alex reforming himself.
Anthony Burgess’s A Clockwork Orange is a literary work of this genre, also exemplified by Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World. It often features a darker vision of the future than the contrasting genre of utopian literature.
Nadsat
A Clockwork Orange
dystopian literature (accept equivalents including dystopia or dystopian) &lt;Kao/Yue, British Literature&gt;
Terence’s <em>Eunuchus</em> partially inspired two notable plays written during this era. For 10 points each:
Identify this English era, whose bawdy comedies include Charles Sedley’s Bellamira and William Wycherley’s The Country Wife. King Charles II was a literary patron during this era.
Lovers Millamant and Mirabell feature in this Restoration author’s The Way of the World. An oft-paraphrased quote from this author’s The Mourning Bride is “Nor hell a fury, like a woman scorned.”
Another notable quotation from The Mourning Bride asserts that this entity “has charms to soothe a savage breast.” Duke Orsino declares “if [this art form] be the food of love, play on” in the opening of Twelfth Night.
the English Restoration
William Congreve
music &lt;R. Li, British Literature; Finals&gt;
This animal is described as having “a grunting weight, / battered and venerable / and homely,” with “brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper” in one poem. For 10 points each:
Name this animal, which titles a poem that climaxes with the description that “everything / was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!”
This American poet of “The Fish” also wrote the poems “In the Waiting Room” and “One Art,” collected in the collection Geography III.
Bishop’s poem “The Filling Station” ends with a statement that “Someone [performs this action to] us all.” In W. H. Auden’s “September 1, 1939,” the speaker asserts that “We must [perform this action to] one another or die.”
the Fish
Elizabeth Bishop
love (accept word forms) &lt;Yue, American Literature; Finals&gt;
After this character wakes, he notes that his sleeping position leaves him “vulnerable” to “an attack… by predatory birds” and ponders the “ill-formed” fragility of the human body. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who falls in love with a hunchbacked locksmith amid a military crackdown in Prague. In another story, this character cherishes a picture of a “lady dressed in copious fur.”
This author reimagined Franz Kafka’s The Metamorphosis in “Samsa in Love,” a story from his collection Men Without Women. A sculptor’s spirit manifests as the cat-killing Johnnie Walker in this author’s Kafka on the Shore.
After Father’s business fails, he transforms into a large insect in a Bruno Schulz work titled for one of these locations “Under the Sign of the Hourglass.” At one of these locations, Elly Brand helps Dr. Krokowski conduct a seance.
Gregor Samsa (accept either underlined name)
Haruki Murakami
sanatorium (accept infirmary, hospice, hospital, and other equivalents) &lt;R. Li, World Literature; Finals&gt;
In one of these kinds of works, a woman falls in love with a Nazi lieutenant and helps him capture rebels, while in another, a European man joins some South American guerillas that kidnap and kill his father. For 10 points each,
Name this general kind of work, many of which are described by Molina to Valentín in a prison in one novel.
The Kiss of the Spider Woman is set in this country, the home of its author Manuel Puig as well as short story writer Jorge Luis Borges [“boar-hess”].
Manuel Puig’s first novel, which also describes many Hollywood films, was titled for this actress. In “Master Harold”…and the boys, Hally remembers being “hot and bothered” by a picture of this actress in a bathing suit.
movies (or films)
Argentina (or Argentine Republic; or República Argentina)
Rita Hayworth (accept Margarita Carmen Casino) &lt;Yue, World Literature; Finals&gt;
The speaker of a “letter” addressed to this person laments “the tedious day so long” after this person went “Southward,” and describes him as “my joy, my Magazine of earthly store.” For 10 points each:
Identify this person, who is “absent upon Publick employment” in one poem. This person is referred to as “the Governor” in a 1953 “homage” to this person’s wife.
In “Prologue,” Anne Bradstreet states that “a weak or wounded” one of these entities “admits no cure.” The speaker of “The Author to Her Book” describes the title object as an “ill-formed offspring” of her “feeble” one of these entities.
John Berryman, who wrote “Homage to Mistress Bradstreet,” also penned a poetry collection titled for “songs” denoted by these things. Another poem asks if a “deferred” one of these things “dr[ies] up / like a raisin in the sun?”
Anne Bradstreet’s husband (do NOT accept or prompt on “Anne Bradstreet”; prompt on Bradstreet; accept Simon Bradstreet or descriptive equivalents like Mr. Bradstreet)
brains
dreams &lt;R. Li, American Literature; Finals&gt;
In one work set in this country, Bessie is mistaken for a sniper and shot twice while pushing a character away from a window. For 10 points each:
Name this country, the setting of another work in which a mother cries, “there isn’t anything more [the title entity] can do to me,” after a character searching for his missing brother is knocked into the sea by a gray pony.
This Irish playwright wrote Riders to the Sea. Much like Sean O’Casey’s later play The Plough and the Stars, this author’s play The Playboy of the Western World caused riots at its Abbott Theater premiere.
In Sean O’Casey’s The Plough and the Stars, Nora Clitheroe has a stillbirth on this day, during which her husband Jack is killed. Yeats repeats the line “A terrible beauty is born” in his poem titled for “[this day], 1916.”
Ireland (prompt on United Kingdom or Great Britain)
John Millington Synge
Easter Monday (accept Easter Rising) &lt;Yue, European Literature; Finals&gt;
The narrator of one story notes how “visitors to the pleasure quarters of Edo preferred” people with these artworks, and how “courtesans of the Yoshiwara… quarter fell in love with” men with these artworks. For 10 points each:
Identify these artworks. Seikichi delights in creating one of these artworks depicting a “huge black-widow spider” for a geisha’s servant in a Jun’ichirō Tanizaki story.
In Ha Jin’s War Trash, Yu Yuan is forcibly tattooed by Chinese Nationalists with an expletive denouncing this ideology. Commissar Pei instructs followers of this ideology to raise the Five-Starred Red flag in that novel.
The protagonist of another novel describes this character’s tattoos as “large blackish looking squares” before sharing a bed with him at the Spouter-Inn. This Polynesian native serves as the harpooner for the Pequod.
tattoos
communism
Queequeg &lt;R. Li, World Literature; Finals&gt;
This character was partially inspired by the author’s third wife, Harriet Bosse, who portrayed this character in the premiere of the play in which she appears. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who repeatedly exclaims “men are to be pitied!” as she observes the hardships of two Coalheavers, a Singer, and an Officer. This character enters a burning castle whose roof blossoms into a chrysanthemum.
Agnes is the protagonist of this Swedish author’s A Dream Play. In another play by this author, Arkenholz meets a mummified Colonel’s wife, her hyacinth-loving daughter, and Jacob Hummel.
This city’s grueling copper mines partly provide the setting for Nobel prize-winning Swedish author Pär Lagerkvist’s Barabbas. Henryk Sienkiewicz’s [“sin-KYEH-vich”] novel about Marcus Vinicius, Quo Vadis, is set in this city.
Agnes (accept anything referring to the daughter of Indra)
August Strindberg
Rome &lt;R. Li, European Literature; Finals&gt;
One play by this author ends with a character insisting she “doesn’t know of any baby” as an “Echo” repeats her words. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a play in which Devlin converses with Rebecca. Another play by this author of Ashes to Ashes features a picture of eleven cricket players and an improperly flushing toilet.
In this play by Pinter, the two central characters clash over the phrase “light the kettle” before the title device relays instructions for Ben to kill Gus.
Pinter’s Betrayal uses this narrative technique to examine Jerry and Emma’s affair, as the first scene details their lunch seven years after they broke up, and the last scene details the start of their fling. A description is acceptable.
Harold Pinter
The Dumb Waiter
reverse chronology (accept descriptive equivalents, such as backwards in time) &lt;R. Li, British Literature&gt;
One of this author’s title characters contends that the modern meat industry “rivals anything that the Third Reich was capable of” during the annual Gates Lecture at Appleton College. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose aforementioned title character reimagines Ulysses from Molly Bloom’s perspective in The House on Eccles Street. The Magistrate confronts Colonel Joll in this author’s Waiting for the Barbarians.
Coetzee’s Waiting for the Barbarians derives its title from a poem by Constantine Cavafy, who wrote in the “modern” variant of this language. Works composed in the “ancient” tradition of this language include The Odyssey.
In another Cavafy poem titled “The God Abandons [this character],” the speaker entreats the addressee to “say goodbye… to the Alexandria you are losing.” In another work, this character claims that he has “come to bury [his friend], not to praise him.”
J. M. Coetzee (or John Maxwell Coetzee)
Greek
Marc Antony [Writer’s note: The second work is Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar.] &lt;R. Li, World Literature&gt;
The most famous poem by one poet with this surname repeatedly notes that the speaker has a “stiffened gown” and ends with the line, “Christ! What are patterns for?” For 10 points each,
Give this last name also shared by a poet who declares “I myself am hell” in the poem “Skunk Hour.” That poet wrote that the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial “sticks like a fishbone / in the city’s throat” in another poem.
The Lowell family lived in this state, the home of many Fireside poets like Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Longfellow’s poem “Paul Revere’s Ride” is set in this state.
In A Fable for Critics, Fireside poet James Russell Lowell attacked this poet as being “three fifths…genius and two fifths sheer fudge.” This poet wrote of the “tintinnabulation” of the title objects in his poem “The Bells.”
Lowell (accept Amy or Robert Lowell)
Massachusetts
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
This poem opens by quoting both Cornelius Agrippa’s <em>Occult Philosophy</em> and a Ralph Waldo Emerson poem about “a tumultuous privacy of Storm.” For 10 points each:
Name this nineteenth-century poem subtitled “A Winter Idyll,” which depicts a family telling stories by the fireplace to wait out a New England blizzard.
Many years after John Greenleaf Whittier’s Snow-Bound, this poet wrote that “One must have a mind of winter / To regard the frost and boughs” in “The Snow Man.” That poem was featured in his collection Harmonium.
The “sweep / Of easy wind and downy flake” is described in this other American poet’s poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” He also wrote “The Road Not Taken.”
Snow-Bound: A Winter Idyl
Wallace Stevens
Robert Frost (or Robert Lee Frost) &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
In the novel <em>Decline and Fall</em>, Paul Pennyfeather is pranked into running pantsless in this location. For 10 points each:
Name this location, where a character from another novel recites lines from T.S. Eliot’s poem “Ash Wednesday” into a megaphone, carrying his voice across a quad. Another character is “put in” a fountain of mercury in this place.
The latter events occurred in this Evelyn Waugh [“EEV-lin WAW”] novel in which the protagonist Charles Ryder has an affair with Julia, who is the sister of his close friend, Sebastian Flyte.
This Oxford tutor was inspired by the Vice-Chancellor’s daughter Alice Liddell to write his books Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass. Several fantastical locations in those books were inspired by Oxford’s Christ Church College.
University of Oxford (prompt on just a university or college)
Brideshead Revisited
Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Lutwidge Dodson) &lt;Gioia/Yue, British Literature&gt;
This object is first seen among the possessions of Jonathan Pue in the Custom House at Salem. For 10 points each:
Name this title object of a Nathaniel Hawthorne novel that symbolizes Hester Prynne’s adultery with Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale.
This unruly child is the result of Hester’s adultery with Reverend Dimmesdale. In The Scarlet Letter, church members consider taking this girl away from Hester to correct her rude behavior.
This governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony demands that Hester reveal the identity of Pearl’s father. At this character’s mansion, Hester looks at a suit of armor and finds the scarlet letter exaggerated in her reflection.
the scarlet letter (or the letter A)
Pearl
Governor Bellingham &lt;Suh, American Literature&gt;
This poem’s epigraph is from the Ballad of Sir Patrick Spence. For 10 points each:
Name this “conversation poem” about Sara Hutchinson that discusses “a grief without pain, void, dark, and drear.” The poet was prompted to write this poem after hearing another poet’s “Ode: Intimations of Immortality.”
This poet wrote “Dejection: An Ode” as well a poem in which the Wedding-Guest hears a story narrated by a man that encountered Life-in-Death and killed an Albatross, “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.”
Coleridge collaborated with William Wordsworth on this poetry collection, the preface of which contains a passage that defines good poetry as being “the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings.”
“Dejection: An Ode”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Lyrical Ballads, with a Few Other Poems &lt;Gioia, British Literature&gt;
In Karen Russell’s <em>Swamplandia!</em>, Osceola Bigtree falls in love with dredger Louis Thanksgiving after using one of these objects to communicate with him. For 10 points each:
Identify these objects. James Merrill used these objects with the help of his partner David Jackson to write his epic poem The Changing Light at Sandover.
This poet wrote of “a chilly god, a god of shades” in her poem “Ouija,” inspired by sessions at the ouija board with her husband Ted Hughes. She wrote of “a man in black with a Meinkampf look” in her poem “Daddy.”
This poet used a planchette to try to communicate with spirits while writing poems dedicated to Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis. He asked “who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?” in those Duino Elegies.
ouija [“WEE-jah”] board (accept synonyms like spirit board or talking board)
Sylvia Plath
Rainer Maria Rilke &lt;R. Li/Yue, World Literature&gt;
After being asked how he stole a casket of jewels, a character in this play responds, “ask me no questions, and I’ll tell you no fibs.” For 10 points each:
Name this play, which features a subplot in which Constance attains a casket of jewels in an attempt to elope with George Hastings.
She Stoops to Conquer was written by this English writer, who described the marriages of Sophia and Squire Thornhill and George and Arabella Wilmot in his novel The Vicar of Wakefield.
In the primary plot of She Stoops to Conquer, Kate Hardcastle attempts to win the love of a man with this last name by posing as a barmaid. A playwright with this last name wrote Doctor Faustus and The Jew of Malta.
She Stoops to Conquer
Oliver Goldsmith
Marlow (or Marlowe) &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
In a story by this author, Alcée <strong>[“al-SAY”]</strong> and Calixta reignite their love affair during the title weather phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Storm.” In another story by this author, Mrs. Sommers elects to buy the title garments instead of purchasing new clothing for her children.
In addition to writing “The Storm” and “A Pair of Silk Stockings,” Chopin also penned this novel, in which Edna Pontellier drowns herself after Robert Lebrun leaves her.
In The Awakening, two twins who play this instrument wear blue and white to honor the Virgin Mary. Mademoiselle Reisz plays this instrument in that work.
Kate Chopin (or Katherine O’Flaherty)
The Awakening
pianoforte &lt;R. Li, American Literature&gt;
After this narrator ingests a madeleine in this volume of a larger work, “at once the vicissitudes of life had become indifferent to [him], its disasters innocuous, its brevity illusory.” For 10 points each:
Name this volume of a larger work, which begins with the narrator reflecting that “for a long time I used to go to bed early.”
Swann’s Way is the first of seven volumes in this French writer’s massive novel In Search of Lost Time.
In the oft-excerpted “Swann in Love,” Charles Swann carries out an affair with this woman. Proust writes that she was “endowed with… beauty which left him indifferent… which gave him, indeed, a sort of physical repulsion.”
Swann’s Way (or Du côté de chez Swann; prompt on In Search of Lost Time or Remembrance of Things Past or À la recherche du temps perdu)
Marcel Proust
Odette de Crécy (accept either underlined name ) &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
This writer lamented the disappearance of paganism as a result of its displacement by Chrisitanity in “Hymn to Proserpine.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of the collection Poems and Ballads. This poet wrote a verse drama about the mythological pursuit of a boar in Atalanta in Calydon.
A different literary Algernon is Algernon Moncrieff, who appears in this play, which involves his best friend Jack Worthing pursuing Gwendolyn Fairfax.
Flowers for Algernon is both a short story and a novel by Daniel Keyes. The titular Algernon is one of these creatures. These animals are also mentioned in the title of a Steinbeck novella named for them and Men.
Algernon [“AL-jer-non”] Charles Swinburne
The Importance of Being Earnest
mouse (accept mice) &lt;Gioia, World Literature&gt;
In one novel, this character discusses Holbein’s painting <em>Body of Dead Christ in the Tomb</em> with two friends, one of whom asserts that there is “no trace of beauty” in it. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who accidentally breaks a Chinese vase belonging to his love interest’s mother while ranting about Catholicism at a dinner party.
This Russian author depicted the “holy fool” Prince Myshkin in his novel The Idiot. He is better known for writing Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov.
In The Idiot, Ippolit espouses this specific philosophy, which pervades the comically long suicide note that he reads at the Prince’s birthday party. Bazarov espouses this philosophy in Ivan Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons.
Prince Myshkin (prompt on The Idiot)
Fyodor Dostoevsky
nihilism (prompt on atheism) &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
The preface to the 1827 play <em>Cromwell</em>, which states “there are no rules, or models,” is considered to be a manifesto of this movement. For 10 points each:
Name this intellectual movement popular in Europe in the first half of the 19th century. The German Sturm und Drang is considered to be a precursor to this movement.
The aforementioned play Cromwell was written by this French Romanticist author of The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Les Miserables.
Hugo used his fifteen-year exile on the island of Guernsey as inspiration for this novel, in which the social outcast Gilliat pines after Deruchette and battles an octopus. Sadly, he eventually kills himself by drowning.
Romanticism (accept word forms)
Victor Hugo
Toilers of the Sea (or Les Travailleurs de la mer) &lt;Suh, European Literature&gt;
To avoid a snowstorm, one character with this profession stays with Magdalena and her husband Buck Scales, who is revealed to have murdered his children and several travelers. For 10 points each:
Name this title profession of a novel in which a friend of Joseph Vaillant builds a certain structure in New Mexico with the help of Don Antonio Olivares.
This author wrote about Jean Marie Latour’s establishment of a Catholic diocese in New Mexico in Death Comes for the Archbishop. She is better known for writing the novels O Pioneers! and My Ántonia.
This other writer wrote of Hazel Motes’s establishment of a “Church Without Christ” in her Catholic novel Wise Blood. She included Catholic themes in stories like “Everything That Rises Must Converge.”
an archbishop (prompt on a Father, priest, and other similar answers with “Give the specific profession in the title of the novel.”)
Willa Cather
Flannery O’Connor &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
Two of these people, Soumitra and Narada, can change sex at will and travel through time, respectively, and a third, Sundari, is so beautiful that she blinded her mother at birth. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were born at the moment of their country’s independence and are forcibly sterilized by the Widow. They include Saleem Sinai and Shiva-of-the-knees.
Midnight’s Children is a novel by this contemporary British-Indian author, against whom a fatwa was issued for his controversial book The Satanic Verses.
This character, another one of the Midnight’s Children, briefly becomes Saleem’s wife. She has a child, Aadam, during an affair with Shiva, before being killed during the Emergency.
the Midnight’s Children (accept equivalents like the protagonists of Midnight’s Children)
Salman Rushdie
Parvati-the-Witch &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
To end one poem in this collection, the speaker tells the addressee to “imprison me, for I, / Except you enthrall me, never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection that also contains a poem that tells the addressee to “pour new seas in mine eyes, that so I might / Drown my world with my weeping earnestly.” That poem begins, “I am a little world made cunningly.”
The most famous of the Holy Sonnets tells this figure that “though some have called thee / Mighty and dreadful…thou art not so.” That poem ends by asserting to this figure that “thou shalt die.”
This Metaphysical poet of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning” and “The Flea” collected poems like “Batter my heart, three-person’d God” and “Death, be not proud” in his Holy Sonnets.
Holy Sonnets (or Divine Meditations or Divine Sonnets)
Death
John Donne &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
A Robert Burns poem titled for one of these objects compares a feeling to one of them “newly sprung in June” before comparing it to “the melodie / That’s sweetly play’d in tune.” For 10 points each:
Name these objects, the subject of a line in Gertrude Stein’s “Sacred Emily” stating, “a [this object] is a [this object] is a [this object].” In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet says that one of them “by any other name would smell as sweet.”
This author wrote a poem about “cultivat[ing] a white rose” even “For the cruel person who tears out / the heart with which I live.” Another of his poems begins, “If you’ve seen a mount of sea foam, / it is my verse you have seen.”
José Hernandez adapted many of Martí’s poems into this country’s patriotic song “Guantanamera.” Martí was a poet from this country, as was the writer Alejo Carpentier.
roses
José Martí
Cuba &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
Karl Krause introduced this work to a thinker who immediately made it his regular nightly reading, saying that “it has been the solace of my life and will be the solace of my death.” For 10 points each:
Name this work which influenced a thinker’s idea that only saintly self-denial and art can transcend “blind striving.” That man repeatedly wrote the phrase “Tat tvam asi” in his magnum opus in reference to this work.
The aforementioned magnum opus is titled for The World as [this concept] and Representation. Nietzsche wrote of the “[this concept] to power,” and its “free” variety is often contrasted with determinism.
This German pessimist wrote that there is only one thing-in-itself and that we live in the “worst of all possible worlds” in The World as Will and Representation.
the Upanishads (accept the Chandogya Upanishad)
will
Arthur Schopenhauer &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
In a poem from the collection <em>The Darkening Ecliptic</em>, a poet with this unusual attribute asserts, “I am still / The black swan of trespass on alien waters.” For 10 points each:
Name this unusual attribute possessed by the writer of “Durer: Innsbruck, 1945,” the poet Ern Malley. An Australian novelist was inspired by Malley to write the 2003 novel My Life as a [person with this attribute].
This Australian novelist of My Life as a Fake depicted the life of outlaw Ned Kelly in The True History of the Kelly Gang. A title character floats a glass church to Bellingen in this writer’s novel Oscar and Lucinda.
The title character of Carey’s novel Jack Maggs was based off of Abel Magwitch, a character from a novel by this British author. That novel about the orphan Pip is titled Great Expectations.
the poet is fictitious (accept being a fake, made up, or other synonyms)
Peter Carey
Charles Dickens &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
A character realizes he has inherited this disease when a doctor warns him that “the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children.” For 10 points each:
Name this disease which afflicts a character that mumbles “the sun, the sun” after asking his mother to euthanize him. Another character with this disease is surprised when offered macaroons and has “tuberculosis of the spine.”
The second aforementioned character, Dr. Rank, proclaims his love for this character, who awkwardly rebuffs his advances. This character is patronizingly referred to as “my little squirrel” by her husband Torvald.
This Norwegian author created Oswald Alving and Nora Helmer in the plays Ghosts and A Doll’s House, respectively.
syphilis
Nora Helmer (accept either or both underlined parts)
Henrik Ibsen &lt;R. Li, European Literature&gt;
This Winnemac city is where Elmer Gantry settles as a minister before becoming executive secretary of the National Association for the Purification of Art and the Press. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional city, where the title character of another novel decides not to join the “Good Citizens’ League” after meeting the socialist Seneca Doane. Paul Riesling is jailed in this city for shooting his wife Zilla.
This generically named road titles another novel by the same author in which Carol Kennicott finds herself unhappy with small town life. That novel titled for this road is set in Gopher Prairie, Minnesota.
This American author of Main Street wrote about Zenith, Winnemac in his novels Elmer Gantry and Babbitt.
Zenith
Main Street
Sinclair Lewis &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
This poem features many newly coined terms that are compounded with hyphens like “couple-colour,” “rose-moles,” and “fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls,” typical of its author’s style. For 10 points each:
Name this “curtailed sonnet” which also features several prominent uses of alliteration in lines like “Landscape plotted and pieced – fold, fallow, and plough” and “With swift, slow; sweet, sour; adazzle, dim.”
The author of “Pied Beauty,” Gerard Manley Hopkins, was initially strongly influenced by this poet before rejecting his aestheticism. This poet wrote that “Beauty is truth; truth beauty” in his poem “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
Beauty also partly titles this Lord Byron poem, which describes a woman with “a heart whose love is innocent.” That woman performs the title action “like the night / Of cloudless climes and starry skies.”
“Pied Beauty”
John Keats
“She Walks in Beauty” &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
A bartender exclaims “Poor Jimmy’s off on [one of these specific entities] again” after Jimmy’s delusional musings about leveraging his relationship with Dick Trumbull to regain his job at the publicity department. For 10 points each:
Name the specific phrase for these entities. These specific things are exemplified by Joe Mott’s reminiscences about opening his own gambling house and two Boer War veterans’ desires to return to South Africa.
This author described the alcoholic denizens of Harry Hope’s saloon and their “pipe dreams” in The Iceman Cometh. This author portrays a single day in the lives of the Tyrone family in his Long Day’s Journey into Night.
It’s not arthritis, but Mary Tyrone notably suffers from this condition. Mrs. Dubose battles this condition by having Jem and Scout read to her in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird.
pipe dreams (prompt on dreams by asking “What kind?”)
Eugene O’Neill
morphine addiction &lt;R. Li, American Literature&gt;
At the beginning of a play, this speech is given by a character who describes himself as “rudely stamp’d,” and describes how “grim-visaged war… capers nimbly in a lady’s chamber.” For 10 points each:
Name this speech, in which the speaker asserts that he is “determined to prove a villain” and notes that a certain metaphorical time is “made glorious summer by this sun of York.”
The title king begins this Shakespeare play with the “Now is the winter of our discontent” speech. At the end of this play, he shouts “a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse” at the Battle of Bosworth Field.
This Shakespeare character from another play asks “dear friends” to perform a certain action “or close the wall up with our English dead.” Another speech by him encourages “we happy few” to fight on a certain day.
the “Now is the winter of our discontent” speech (accept but DO NOT REVEAL the beginning of Act I of Richard III or equivalents)
Richard III
Henry V (prompt on just King Henry) &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
<em>Description acceptable</em>. In a novel, a character who suffers from this injury listens to baseball games on an old radio with Root. For 10 points each:
Name this general type of injury endured by the latter title character of Yoko Ogawa’s The Housekeeper and the Professor. After a motorcycle accident causes this injury, the Professor’s short-term memory shrinks to eighty minutes.
In her autobiography Prognosis: A Memoir of My Brain, Sarah Vallance endures a traumatic brain injury after falling off of one of these animals. In another novel, Count Vronsky owns one of these animals who breaks his back.
Bird’s son is mentally disabled due to a brain hernia in this Japanese novel. Bird embarks on a relationship with Himiko in this novel.
traumatic brain injury (or TBI; accept concussion, brain damage, head injury, or reasonable equivalents; prompt on amnesia)
a horse
A Personal Matter (or Kojinteki na taiken) &lt;Omer, World Literature&gt;
A poem about being from this place notes that people like Cain “May be refin’d, and join th’ angelic train.” For 10 points each:
Name this place, the first residence in the title of a Phyllis Wheatley poem beginning “’Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land.”
In the twentieth century, African poets Leopold Senghor and Aimé Césaire responded to African colonialism with poems written in this language. Those poets were part of the négritude movement, founded from their time in Paris.
This Caribbean poet wrote that “the wind is ruffling the tawny pelt of Africa” in his poem on the Mau-Mau uprising titled “A Far Cry from Africa,” which ends by asking, “how can I turn from Africa and live?”
Africa
French
Derek Alton Walcott &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
In one story, characters travel to the Zinc Cliffs to collect this entity’s milk. For 10 points each:
Name this entity that titles a short story in which the narrator falls in love with Captain Vhd Vhd’s [“vid vid”] wife, who loves the narrator’s deaf cousin instead.
“The Distance of the Moon” was written by Italo Calvino, whose novel If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler is written in this unusual narrative mode. In that novel, you, the protagonist, fall in love with Ludmilla.
In this Italo Calvino novel, places like Diomira and Isidora are described by Marco Polo to Kublai Khan. The title places of this novel are divided into “Thin,” “Trading,” “Continuous,” and “Hidden” ones.
the Moon
second-person narration
Invisible Cities (or Le città invisibili) &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
This type of masked theater is typically accompanied by a <em>taiko</em> drum and a <em>fue</em> <strong>[“FOO-ay”]</strong> flute. For 10 points each:
Name this genre of stylized Japanese drama developed by Kan’ami and Zeami which uses wooden masks. Plays in this genre of theatre are often separated by comedic kyogen.
The symbol of two masks with contrasting emotions are used to represent comedy and this other genre of Greek theatre. According to Aristotle’s Poetics, this genre creates catharsis through “pity and terror.”
The mask of this Italian commedia dell’arte stock character is a half-mask with a long nose, prominent eyebrows, and a long beard. This character is an old wealthy man that is often greedy and dressed in red trousers.
noh (or nogaku)
tragedy
Pantalone [“pan-ta-LO-nay”] &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
Fanny Burney’s novel <em>Evelina</em> typified an eighteenth-century genre of English novels known as “novels of [this concept],” of which conduct novels are a subgenre. For 10 points each:
Name this concept represented by Marianne Dashwood in a novel in which she gets engaged to Colonel Brandon instead of John Willoughby. This concept is the final word in the title of that novel.
This British author of Sense and Sensibility was influenced by novels of sensibility to write novels like Mansfield Park and Pride and Prejudice.
This author critiqued the novel of sensibility in Mary: A Fiction. Her unfinished novel Maria, published by her husband William Godwin, was a sequel to a treatise arguing that women were trapped in a “cult of sensibility.”
sensibility
Jane Austen
Mary Wollstonecraft &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
At the end of the novel in which this character appears, he laughs while quoting a nursery rhyme ending with, “Better start running, the Black Cook’s coming!” For 10 points each:
Name this character who tells Vittlar to falsely accuse him of Sister Dorothea’s murder, which eventually lands him in the asylum from which he narrates a Günter Grass novel.
Oskar identifies himself as this man to the police, causing them to send him to the asylum. This man names an archetypal “figure” that sacrifices him- or herself for the good of others, perhaps accompanied by symbols of crucifixion.
After forming the Rhine River Three jazz trio with Klepp and Scholle, Oskar is invited by Mr. Schmuh to play his drums at this club where due to the namesake vegetable, “at long last, people wept again.”
Oskar Matzerath (accept either underlined name)
Jesus Christ (accept either underlined name; prompt on the Messiah or a messianic figure)
the Onion Cellar &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
In a poem titled “Details for [this place],” the speaker affirms his “implicit faith in the Boy Scouts” and spots a boy who “gets paid for distributing circulars” and “throws it down the sewer.” For 10 points each:
Identify this place. In a five-volume epic titled for this place, this city “lies in the valley under the Passaic Falls” with “its spent waters forming the outline of his back.”
This author of Paterson notes that “so much depends upon” the title object in “The Red Wheelbarrow.” He also wrote “This is Just to Say,” in which the speaker confesses to “eat[ing] the plums that were in the icebox.”
In another poem, Williams describes how this event occurs “unsignificantly off the coast.” In W. H. Auden’s “Musée des Beaux Arts,” [“moo-zay day bo zar”] “everything turns away / Quite leisurely from [the aftermath of this event].”
Paterson
William Carlos Williams
the fall of Icarus (accept any answer indicating Icarus falling from the sky or dying or drowning; prompt on fall by asking “Who fell?”; prompt on Icarus by asking “What happened to him?”) &lt;R. Li, American Literature&gt;
In a novel by this author, a ruler attempts to build the skyscraper Marching to Heaven in the Free Republic of Aburĩria. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about a character who led a hunger strike at Rira camp that secretly betrayed the killer of District Officer Robson to the British in another novel.
Ngũgĩ is an author from Kenya, the setting of a memoir by this author about living on a coffee plantation. Ngũgĩ called that book, Out of Africa, “one of the most dangerous books ever written about Africa.”
Ngũgĩ’s essay collection Decolonizing the Mind discusses the “politics” of using the English language, just as this British author did in “Politics and the English Language.” He also wrote 1984.
Ngũgĩ [“n-GOO-ghee”] wa Thiong’o (or James Ngugi; prompt on Thiong’o)
Karen Blixen (or Isak Dinesen)
George Orwell (or Eric Arthur Blair) &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
A stanza form named for this author consists of three eleven-syllable lines and a five-syllable continuation of the third line. For 10 points each:
Name this poet translated by Anne Carson in the collection If Not, Winter. This author of the line “Lift high the roofbeam… you carpenters” wrote a “Hymn” addressed to a “deathless” and “artfully adorned” figure.
This Roman poet took inspiration from Sappho’s “Ode to Anactoria” to write his fifty-first numbered poem. This writer of a poem ending “hail and farewell” often addressed his poems to Lesbia, who was named for Sappho.
Horace used Sapphic meter to write his Odes, including one that ends “[this Latin phrase], trusting tomorrow as little as possible.” This Latin phrase is usually translated as “seize the day.”
Sappho of Lesbos
Catullus (or Gaius Valerius Catullus)
carpe diem &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
This character repeats the mantra, “You were sick, but now you are well again. And there’s work to be done.” in the novel <em>Timequake</em>, and he is the narrator of the novel <em>Galápagos</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional character, the favorite author of Eliot Rosewater. This character’s novel Now It Can Be Told causes Dwayne Hoover to believe he is the only person in the universe with free will in another novel.
In this novel, Eliot Rosewater raves to protagonist Billy Pilgrim about Kilgore Trout. Billy becomes “unstuck in time” after being abducted by Tralfamadorians in this novel.
This author of Cat’s Cradle employed the science-fiction writer Kilgore Trout as his literary alter ego in Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kilgore Trout (accept either underlined name)
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
In a poem, this man is told to “pipe a tune to dance to” by a speaker who has “been to Ludlow fair / And left [his] necktie God knows where.” For 10 points each:
Name this man, who is told by that poem’s speaker that “Mithridates, he died old” despite several poisoning attempts.
“Terence, this is stupid stuff” is included in this English poet’s collection A Shropshire Lad, which also contains poems like “Is my team ploughing” and “When I was one-and-twenty.”
Another poem from A Shropshire Lad is titled for someone with this profession “Dying Young.” That poem begins by recounting “the time [the addressee] won [his] town the race.”
Terence
A.E. Housman (or Alfred Edward Housman)
an athlete (accept a runner) &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
In one play, two of these characters spare a man that had previously called them “God-less tricks” because “he works with his hands like [these characters].” For 10 points each:
Name these characters that partially title a play featuring the characters Marius and Sulla. Alquist gives the new names Adam and Eve to two of these characters, Primus and Helena, at the end of that Karel Čapek [“CHA-peck”] play.
R.U.R. is a play by Karel Čapek written in this language. Čapek’s play The Makropulos Affair in this language is primarily set in the capital city of Prague.
This other Czech playwright wrote about Hugo Pludek attending the title event at the Liquidation Office in his play The Garden Party.
robots (accept Rossum’s Universal Robots)
Czech
Václav [“VAHTS-lahv”] Havel &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
This play features a Singer that performs songs about “Chaos in Egypt” and “The Four Generals,” and it was derived from an earlier Yuan dynasty play with a similar title. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Grusha refuses to engage in the judge Azdak’s test, causing her to win guardianship of Michael.
This German playwright of The Caucasian Chalk Circle took inspiration from the “alienation effect” of Chinese theater and formed his concept of “epic theatre.” He also wrote Mother Courage and Her Children.
The frame story of The Caucasian Chalk Circle is set in the Soviet Union after the failure of an invasion ordered by this German leader. Brecht’s The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui allegorizes the rise of this leader of the Nazi Party.
The Caucasian Chalk Circle
Bertolt Brecht (or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht)
Adolf Hitler &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
A mysterious leopard carcass is located at this place, a part of which is known locally as the “House of God.” For 10 points each:
Name this place where Molo serves his “Bwana” whiskey-soda over the objections of Helen. Harry eventually dies of gangrene at this location.
“The Snows of Kilimanjaro” is a short story by this American author who also wrote the novels The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls.
In another Hemingway short story, a woman converses with an American man at a train station in Madrid, and compares the nearby hills to these specifically-colored animals.
Mount Kilimanjaro (accept “The Snows of Kilimanjaro”)
Ernest Hemingway
white elephants (accept “Hills Like White Elephants”; prompt on just elephants by asking “What color are they?”) &lt;Suh, American Literature&gt;
Some of these locations are “ornate and mad / In the evening sun” in a Philip Larkin poem. For 10 points each:
Identify these locations. The speaker of a Larkin poem named for the act of “Going” to these locations “take[s] off / [his] cycle-clips in awkward reverence” before “donat[ing] an Irish sixpence” in one of these locations.
The speaker of another Larkin poem laments England’s loss of this concept at the start of World War I by declaring “never such [this concept] again.” A poetry collection is named for Songs of [this concept] and Experience.
This author wrote Songs of Innocence and Experience. The title animal is “burning bright / In the forests of the night” in this author’s “The Tyger.”
churches
innocence
William Blake &lt;R. Li, British Literature&gt;
This poem begins and ends with a description of “a river that goes curving, / advances and retreats, goes roundabout, / arriving forever,” mirroring this poem’s theme of the circularity of time. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, whose speaker “go[es] a journey in galleries of sound” and “go[es] among your body as among the world.” It also describes a “pillar of fountain by the wind drawn over.”
“Sunstone” was written by Octavio Paz, an author from this country. That poem was inspired by the calendar of the Aztecs, who lived in the center of this modern-day country.
This poet was inspired by his visit to Incan ruins to write lines like “arise to birth with me, my brother” and “speak through my words and through my blood” in “The Heights of Macchu Picchu,” part of his Canto General.
“Sunstone” (or “Piedra del sol”)
Mexico
Pablo Neruda (accept Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto) &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
While wandering through the forest, the speaker of a Johann Wolfgang von Goethe <strong>[“GUR-tuh”]</strong> poem finds one of these objects “glistening” like stars which asks: “Shall I be gather’d / Only to fade?” For 10 points each:
Name these objects. Novalis’s novel Heinrich von Ofterdingen describes a blue one of these objects that served as a symbol of German Romanticism. William Carlos Williams wrote about “Asphodel, That Greeny [one of these objects].”
This German poet described a blue flower growing “at the cross-road” in his Lyrisches Intermezzo. This author depicted a dancing bear in Atta Troll and a golden-haired siren on the Rhine in Die Lorelei.
In Lyrisches Intermezzo, Heine repeatedly invokes the blue flower as belonging to this action. Young Werther takes this action with a pair of pistols supplied by Charlotte in a Goethe novel.
flower
Heinrich Heine
suicide (accept killing oneself or shooting oneself) &lt;R. Li, European Literature&gt;
Joan schemes to get this character to visit Trantridge in order to “claim kin.” For 10 points each:
Name this character whom Angel Clare calls “Demeter” and “Artemis.” She is implied to have been raped by Alec in a forest called “The Chase.”
Tess is the main character of Tess of the d’Urbervilles, a novel by this English author of Far from the Madding Crowd and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
After killing Alec, Tess is captured at this location by the police. In his poem “Guilt and Sorrow,” William Wordsworth calls out to the “pile” of this place.
Tess Durbeyfield (or Tess of the d’Urbervilles; prompt on Durbeyfield)
Thomas Hardy
Stonehenge &lt;Suh, British Literature&gt;
In this novel, a wife looking for her husband is trampled to death by a horse that was startled by the sound of a gunshot. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that details the final day in the life of alcoholic consul Geoffrey Firmin, who dies in Mexico on the Day of the Dead.
In addition to Malcolm Lowry, this other British writer wrote about the death of an alcoholic in Mexico in his novel The Power and the Glory. That novel with a “whisky priest” protagonist is one of his four Catholic novels.
Greene’s novel Our Man in Havana centers on a vacuum salesman recruited into this profession. In an Ian Fleming novel, the Cuban assassin Francisco Scaramanga is foiled by James Bond, a character with this profession.
Under the Volcano
Graham Greene
a spy (accept secret agent or MI6 agent) &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
In Horace Wilson’s translation of a poem by this author, the title object is introduced as “in form some elephant, whose sportive rage / Ramparts, scarce equal to his might, engage.” For 10 points each:
Name this Sanskrit poet of a poem in which that title Cloud Messenger journeys to the city of the Yakshas, Alakā, at the request of a servant of Kubera.
The blank chapter “Vanished into the Clouds” implies the death of this title character of an unrelated work. This character is married to Lady Aoi [“AHH-oi”] and is often called “Shining.”
Aristophanes’s comedy The Clouds satirizes this philosopher, who leads the Thinkery in that play. Plato’s Apology names The Clouds as one of the reasons for the trial of this man, who features in most Platonic dialogues.
Kālidāsa
Hikaru Genji (or Shining Genji; accept The Tale of Genji)
Socrates &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
Mabel Loomis Todd and Thomas Wentworth Higginson were the first publishers of this poet’s poems, and set the standard for how to treat the dashes at the ends of many of her poems’ lines. For 10 points each:
Name this American poet who wrote a poem in which a speaker enters a “Carriage [that] held but just Ourselves – / And Immortality!” in her poem “Because I could not stop for Death.”
In another Dickinson poem, the speaker hears this “Blue – uncertain – stumbling” sound before “the Windows failed – and then / I could not see to see –.” This sound occurs “when I died –,” during a “Stillness in the Room.”
Another Dickinson speaker paradoxically recounts that this specific title event happened twice before her death, and “It yet remains to see / If Immortality unveil / A third event to me.” The specific term is required.
Emily Dickinson
a Fly’s buzz (prompt on partial answer; accept “I heard a Fly buzz – when I Died”)
“my life closed” (accept word forms, but do NOT accept synonyms; accept “My life closed twice before its close”) &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
In one novel in this genre, the title character plays the title role in a production of <em>Hamlet</em> and finds a scroll that details the story of his life. For 10 points each:
Name these “novels of formation” exemplified by a series of Goethe [“GUR-tuh”] novels depicting Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and Journeyman Years. This genre of novel is often translated as a “coming-of-age” novel.
Goethe’s best-known work is a closet drama in two parts titled for this man. This man wins Gretchen’s love after a bargain with the Devil that has become synonymous with a morally corrupting deal.
Goethe wrote Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship with the support of the author of this play, which kickstarted the Sturm und Drang movement. This play contrasts the relative evils of the two brothers Franz and Karl Moor.
bildungsroman (prompt on coming-of-age novel before mention)
Faust (do NOT accept or prompt on “Doctor Faustus”)
The Robbers &lt;Yue, European Literature&gt;
At the end of a novel by John Gardner, this character declares in the third person that he’s “had an accident,” and menacingly wishes, “So may you all.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, described as a “dark death-shadow” and part of “Cain’s clan” in another work, who terrorizes King Hrothgar’s hall Heorot [“HAIR-it”] before his arm is torn off by that work’s title character.
Grendel is the first of three major foes to face the title warrior-hero of this Old English epic.
In this other Old English epic, Jesus’ crucifixion is recounted by the cross on which he is nailed. This poem has been variously attributed to Caedmon and Cynewulf [“KIN-i-wolf”], and is preserved in the Vercelli Codex.
Grendel
Beowulf
The Dream of the Rood &lt;Yue, British Literature&gt;
In one play by this author, the slave Sceledrus spots two lovers kissing while he chases a monkey. For 10 points each:
Name this author who depicted the title “Vainglorious Soldier” in his play Miles [“mee-lays”] Gloriosus. That play, like many by this author, features a “clever slave.”
Although Miles Gloriosus is set in a Greek city, its characters speak this language. Plautus was a member of this ancient Roman language’s namesake “Old Period.”
Miles Gloriosus’s title character extols “the lustre” of one of these objects as “more bright than the rays of the sun.” In the Aeneid, one of these objects is said to depict an infant Romulus and Remus and the Battle of Actium.
Titus Maccius Plautus
Latin
a shield &lt;R. Li, Ancient Literature&gt;
One character explains the existence of this profession by saying that “our civilization is so vast that we can’t have our minorities upset and stirred.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession of Stoneman, Black, and the protagonist of a novel. That protagonist is annoyed by a Denham’s Dentifrice commercial after his Seashell-radio-wearing wife asks him to watch the White Clown with her.
This science-fiction author wrote about the fireman Guy Montag burning books in his dystopian novel Fahrenheit 451.
Several short stories by Bradbury concern moving to this general place, including “The Exiles” and “The Rocket.” His collection containing the story “There Will Come Soft Rains” is titled for this place’s Chronicles.
firemen (accept word forms; do NOT accept or prompt on anything else as “firemen” is the specific term)
Ray Bradbury
Mars (accept The Martian Chronicles) &lt;Yue, American Literature&gt;
One character in this novel agrees to marry a doctor only if she is never made to eat eggplants, and that doctor later cheats on her with Barbara Lynch. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Florentino pines after the wife of Dr. Juvenal Urbino, Fermina.
Love in the Time of Cholera was written by this Colombian novelist. He is better known for chronicling the history of the Buendia family in his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
García Márquez’s novel The Autumn of the Patriarch depicts a man with this profession. Another novel that belongs to the literary genre named for this profession is Mario Vargas Llosa’s The Feast of the Goat.
Love in the Time of Cholera
Gabriel García Márquez (prompt on Márquez)
dictator (accept tyrants and other equivalents; prompt on just a leader of a country or a general or politician) &lt;Yue, World Literature&gt;
This British author wrote romances under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott. For 10 points each:
Name this best-selling novelist of all time, whose books include And Then There Were None. Her characters include Roger Ackroyd.
Christie is best-known for writing in this broad genre that usually features detectives. Raymond Chandler wrote about this genre in his essay The Simple Art of Murder.
Christie’s murder mysteries include this play, in which the murder investigator Sergeant Trotter arrives on skis. Its characters include an army deserter named Christopher Robin who’s posing as “Christopher Wren.”
Agatha (Mary Clarissa) Christie, (Lady Mallowan)
crime fiction [accept murder mystery]
The Mousetrap &lt;MK&gt;
An author from this state wrote about the Fairchild family in her novel <em>Delta</em> <em>Wedding</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this home state of Eudora Welty, who also wrote The Optimist’s Daughter. Another author from this state wrote about the Christ-like outcast Joe Christmas in Light in August.
In this other novel by Eudora Welty, boatman Mike Fink loses a bragging contest to Jamie Lockhart, the title character. In this novel, Lockhart later kidnaps Rosamund Musgrove, who manages to fall in love with him.
The Robber Bridegroom was based on one of the many fairy tales compiled by this pair of German siblings, whose other tales include “Rapunzel” and “Hansel and Gretel.”
Mississippi (The other author is William Faulkner.)
The Robber Bridegroom
Brothers Grimm [accept Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm] &lt;MK&gt;
This man wrote the novel <em>Cabbages</em> <em>and</em> <em>Kings</em> while on the run from the law. For 10 points each:
Name this American author, who coined the term “banana republic” in that work. He’s best-known for short stories with twist endings like “The Last Leaf.”
At the beginning of O. Henry’s “A Retrieved Reformation,” Jimmy Valentine has just left this kind of place. In The Count of Monte Cristo, Edmond Dantès is wrongfully sent to this kind of place in the Château d’If.
In O. Henry’s story “The Gift of the Magi”, Della and Jim buy each other ironic Christmas presents after selling these two things; name the item that each person sells.
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
prisons [or jails; accept clear equivalents]
Della’s hair AND Jim’s watch (The presents are a comb and a watch chain) &lt;MK&gt;
A poem about this condition complains that the speaker’s “one talent” is “lodg’d with me useless.” For 10 points each:
Name this condition lamented in a poem that ends by noting “They also serve who only stand and wait.”
John Milton’s “On His Blindness” is a work in this 14-line poetic genre developed by Petrarch.
An epidemic of blindness is described in a novel by this author of The Gospel According to Jesus Christ. He died in 2010.
blindness [accept “On His Blindness”]
sonnets
José (de Sousa) Saramago &lt;MK&gt;
This author wrote several plays starring Bérenger, including <em>Stroll</em> <em>in</em> <em>the</em> <em>Air</em> and <em>The</em> <em>Killer</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this absurdist author who mostly wrote in French. In his most famous play, a group of people including Bérenger’s love interest Daisy undergo a mysterious transformation.
Ionesco’s The Bald Soprano doesn’t actually feature a singer, but instead gets its name from a phrase spoken by man of this profession. Guy Montag ironically has this job title in Fahrenheit 451; a description is fine.
Around the time Ionesco was writing Rhinoceros, a fellow Absurdist author was writing this play, originally in French. This play’s set includes a periscope and two trash cans.
Eugène Ionesco (The play is Rhinoceros.)
fireman [or fire chief; accept firefighter or capitaine des pompiers]
Endgame [or Fin de partie] &lt;MK/JR&gt;
Tarapada successfully escapes his impending marriage to a zamindar’s daughter in this author’s short story “Atithi.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who depicted an ideological battle between the pacifist Nikhil and the revolutionary Sandip in The Home and the World.
Tagore was the first Nobel laureate to come from this country. This is also the home of Arundhati Roy and the Sanskrit poet Kalidasa.
This Tagore poem is addressed to a “dispenser” of destiny with a name that “echoes” in the hills of the Himalayas. The title figure of this Indian national anthem is the “ruler of the minds of all people”.
Rabindranath Tagore [accept “Takhoor” or “Gurudev”]
Republic of India
“Jana Gana Mana” &lt;MK&gt;
Abraham Lincoln, the dedicatee of “O Captain, My Captain!” was also eulogized in this poem by the same man. For 10 points each:
Name that poem that tells of a “solitary thrush” and begins by describing how “the great star early droop’d in the western sky.”
Both of those poems are featured alongside “Song of Myself” in Leaves of Grass, a collection by this American poet.
The speaker of this man’s poem “To Roosevelt” states that it’s with the “verse of Walt Whitman” that people should reach the title figure. This poet started a Symbolist movement called modernismo.
“When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d”
Walt(er) Whitman
Rubén Darío [or Félix Rubén García Sarmiento] &lt;MK&gt;
This novel coined the name “Great Game” for the Anglo–Russian geopolitical conflict in Central Asia. For 10 points each:
Name this Rudyard Kipling novel set during the Anglo–Afghan Wars. Lurgan teaches its title orphan the Jewel Game.
Kim’s parents are from this modern country. A poet from this country wrote “A line will take us hours maybe; / Yet if it does not seem a moment’s thought, / Our stitching and unstitching has been naught” in “Adam’s Curse.”
Kim helps a member of this religion finally discover the River of the Arrow and subsequently achieve Enlightenment. The title character of Herman Hesse’s Siddhartha converts to this faith.
Kim
Republic of Ireland [or Poblacht na hÉireann] (The poet is W.B. Yeats.)
Buddhism [accept word forms] &lt;MK&gt;
In a play, a victim of this crime recalls how the perpetrator made her kneel with him to pray for forgiveness. For 10 points each:
Name this crime that loses Reverend Shannon his tour guide job in The Night of the Iguana. In another play by the same man, Blanche is fired from her teaching job for this crime, not “nerves” as she claims. A description is fine.
That happens in A Streetcar Named Desire, a play by this American author of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
In A Streetcar Named Desire, Blanche’s boyfriend Mitch states that this game “shouldn’t be played in a house with women.” Sessions of this game are hosted by Stanley at his home.
statutory rape [prompt on partial answer; accept descriptions; accept answers that indicate having sex with a student]
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
poker [prompt on cards or gambling] &lt;MK&gt;
A poet claimed that this woman was called by her name “even by those who did not know what her name was.” For 10 points each:
Name this subject of La Vita Nuova. In a later poem, she guides the protagonist through nine celestial spheres to the Divine “Love which moves the sun and the other stars.”
Beatrice was the beloved of this Italian poet who included Inferno in his Divine Comedy.
Dante’s Inferno claims that this then-living pope was destined for the Eighth Circle of Hell. This author of the bull Unam Sanctam was attacked in Dante’s De Monarchia and killed 6,000 people in Palestrina in 1298.
Beatrice (di Folco) Portinari
Dante Alighieri [or Durante degli Alighieri]
Boniface VIII [or Benedetto Caetani] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Andrew Marvell’s “To His Coy Mistress.”
The poem uses this meter, which uses lines a bit shorter than those Shakespeare used for his blank verse.
The poem is one of the many “metaphysical” poems written during this century, which is when John Dryden and John Donne lived. Shakespeare wrote most of his plays and died in this century.
Near the end of the poem, Marvell exhorts his Mistress to do this action with “all our strength and all / our sweetness,” which will allow them to “tear our pleasures with rough strife / Through the iron gates of life.”
iambic tetrameter [prompt on partial answer]
17th century [or 1600s]
roll [them] up into one ball [accept any answer that clearly indicates rolling something into a ball; prompt on partial answers] &lt;JR&gt;
An 1816 poem personifies this thing by claiming that it can be found “sitting careless” on the floor, its “hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind.” For 10 points each:
Name this addressee of an ode that describes it as a “Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun.”
“To Autumn” was written by this English Romantic poet whose other odes include “Ode to a Nightingale” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
Keats’ contemporary Percy Shelley described the addressee of this poem as a “breath of Autumn’s being.” This poem ends with the line, “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?”
autumn [accept fall; accept “To Autumn”]
John Keats
“Ode to the West Wind” &lt;MK&gt;
This author’s <em>The</em> <em>Childhood</em> <em>of</em> <em>Jesus</em>, naturally, does not include any characters named Jesus, Mary or Joseph. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose novel Elizabeth Costello mainly consists of lectures given by the title writer. Professor David Lurie loses everything after having an affair with a student in his novel Disgrace.
Coetzee wrote a novelistic reimagining of how Daniel Defoe came to write his novel about this man. This character meets the native Friday while cast away on a desert island.
In Coetzee’s Waiting for the Barbarians, a man identified only by this specific job title defies the Third Bureau by taking in a girl from the title group.
J.M. Coetzee [or John Maxwell Coetzee]
Robinson Crusoe
magistrates &lt;JW&gt;
This novel includes the story “Before the Law,” in which a gatekeeper repeatedly tells a man “not just yet.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel that opens “Someone must have been telling lies about Josef K.”
The Trial was written by this German-language author of The Metamorphosis.
Most of Kafka’s stories survive because this friend of his published them instead of burning them as Kafka had asked. This man’s partial German translation was key to the success of Jaroslav Hašek’s The Good Soldier Švejk.
The Trial [or Der Prozess]
Franz Kafka
Max Brod &lt;MK&gt;
The first bust of this figure is destroyed at Morse Hudson’s shop as the culprit looks for a black pearl. For 10 points each:
Name this man; at the end of that story, Sherlock Holmes catches Beppo before he can destroy the sixth and final bust of this man. In another novel, a pig with this name exiles Snowball during his rise to power.
Like all the original Sherlock Holmes stories, “The Adventure of the Six Napoleons” was written by this British author.
At the end of this Sherlock Holmes story, Sherlock and his nemesis Moriarty both fall off a cliff at Reichenbach Falls.
Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined part; accept “The Adventure of the Six Napoleons”]
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle [prompt on partial answer]
“The Final Problem” &lt;MK&gt;
Despite a terminal illness, this character is abandoned by his wife Praskovya, leaving Gerasim as his only caretaker. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of an 1886 novella. He dies of a fall while hanging curtains in his home.
The Death of Ivan Ilyich was written by this Russian author of War and Peace.
In Tolstoy’s novel Anna Karenina, Sergei can’t find it in himself to propose to Varenka while they are out together performing this activity.
Ivan Ilyich [prompt on partial answer; accept The Death of Ivan Ilyich or Smert' Ivána Ilyichá]
Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
picking mushrooms [accept obvious equivalents like mushroom gathering] &lt;MK&gt;
In a four-line poem, the narrator describes lifting his head to see this object before thinking about home. For 10 points each:
Name this object that’s seen in the 8th-century lyric “Quiet Night Thought.”
“Quiet Night Thought” is a poem by this 8th-century poet who also wrote “Drinking Alone by Moonlight.”
Li Bai’s “Quiet Night Thought,” like many post-Han shi poems, has this number of characters in each line. This is the number of iambs used Shakespeare’s favorite blank verse meter.
the moon
Li Bai [or Li Po; or Li Taibai]
five [accept iambic pentameter] &lt;MK&gt;
This author had to add notes to fill a book with a poem whose sections include “Death by Water” and “The Fire Sermon.” For 10 points each:
Name this Anglo-American poet, who wrote that “April is the cruellest month” in his poem The Waste Land.
In Eliot’s “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock,” the speaker asks, “Do I dare to eat [one of these items?]”
Prufrock also parenthetically imagines the women in the room remarking how his hair, arms, and legs can be described by this adjective.
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
a peach
thin [accept “How his hair is growing thin!” or “But how his arms and legs are thin!”] &lt;MK&gt;
In this novel, the lawyer Boris Max argues that the protagonist could not have escaped his fate. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose black protagonist accidentally kills Mary Dalton. He attempts to evade the police with his girlfriend Bessie, but kills her as well.
This author of the autobiography Black Boy drew on his experience growing up in Chicago to write Native Son.
This later American author attacked Native Son in his essay “Many Thousands Gone,” and wrote that its protagonist Bigger Thomas was “Uncle Tom’s descendant” in “Everybody’s Protest Novel.”
Native Son
Richard (Nathaniel) Wright
James (Arthur) Baldwin &lt;CK&gt;
A member of this family wrote a novel about Heathcliff’s futile love for Catherine Earnshaw. For 10 points each:
Give this real-life surname of the aforementioned author of Wuthering Heights and her sister, who wrote Jane Eyre.
The Brontë sisters all used this pseudonymous surname for their publications. Their pseudonymous first names were Ellis, Currer, and Acton.
After abandoning the world of Angria in their early teens, Emily and Anne Brontë often wrote about this fictional country. It is ruled over by Julius Brenzaida and has control over Gaaldine, an island south of it.
Brontë [accept Emily Brontë or Charlotte Brontë]
Bell
Gondal &lt;CK&gt;
The title character of this author’s novel <em>Luka</em> <em>and</em> <em>the</em> <em>Fire</em> <em>of</em> <em>Life</em> searches for a cure for his father Rashid’s curse, which was placed by Captain Aag. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Luka’s brother in Haroun and the Sea of Stories.
This Rushdie character is switched at birth with his nemesis Shiva of the Knees and falls in love with Padma.
Rushdie was put under a fatwa for a novel titled for this religious figure’s Verses. In a Washington Irving story, Tom Walker sells his soul to this figure in the guise of “Old Scratch.”
(Sir Ahmed) Salman Rushdie
Saleem Sinai [prompt on Sinai] (From Midnight’s Children.)
the Devil [or Satan; accept The Satanic Verses; accept “The Devil and Tom Walker”; accept Shaitan; accept Iblis] &lt;MK&gt;
In this novel, a panic starts when Orpheus collapses onstage during a performance of Gluck’s opera. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Father Paneloux gives a sermon after failing to save a dying child. Cottard leaves a suicide note that reads “Come in, I’ve hanged myself” in this novel.
This novel by the same author opens at the funeral of the title character’s mother. At its climax, the title character is bothered by the heat and light on a beach and shoots after seeing the glint of a knife.
This Algerian-born Frenchman wrote The Plague and The Stranger.
The Plague [or La Peste]
The Stranger [or L’Étranger; accept The Outsider]
Albert Camus &lt;CK&gt;
The speaker of one of this woman’s poems claims that “parting is all we know of heaven, and all we need of hell.” For 10 points each:
Name this “Belle of Amherst,” who wrote “My life closed twice before its close” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Dickinson declared “How dreary…How public — like a Frog — To tell one’s name — the livelong June — To an admiring Bog!” in a poem that asks this question in the first line.
The narrator of this Dickinson poem wills away her “Keepsakes” in a poem that describes “The Stillness in the Room” when she notices the title creature.
Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson
“I’m Nobody! Who are you?”
“I heard a Fly buzz — when I died” &lt;MK&gt;
This work’s central journey was delayed by Hurricane Donna, and began at the author’s summer home at Sag Harbor. For 10 points each:
Name this travelogue, which describes the author’s journey with a poodle across the United States in a camper nicknamed “Rocinante.”
Travels with Charley was written by this Californian author of The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men.
Steinbeck’s Dust Bowl trilogy begins with In Dubious Battle, which centers on Communists organizing one of these events. Clifford Odets’ Waiting for Lefty is about taxi drivers organizing in one of these events.
Travels with Charley: In Search of America
John (Ernst) Steinbeck Jr.
a labour strike &lt;MK&gt;
This is the location of Big Mama’s funeral in the namesake story. For 10 points each:
Name this town, which made early appearances in the short story “Leaf Storm” and the novel In Evil Hour. Its founder loses his sanity and is tied to a chestnut tree by his family.
This Colombian author of Love in the Time of Cholera wrote about Macondo’s Buendía family in One Hundred Years of Solitude. He died in 2014.
In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Colonel Aureliano Buendía develops a passion for creating lots of these animals. In a 1951 novella, a large one of these animals is brought home by an old fan of the “Great DiMaggio.”
Macondo
Gabriel García Márquez [or Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez; prompt on Gabo or Gabito]
golden fishes [accept marlins] (The novella is The Old Man and the Sea.) &lt;MK&gt;
This novel introduced many of the common tropes about pirates, like the peg leg, the parrot on the shoulder, and “X marks the spot.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel narrated by Jim Hawkins, in which the harsh Captain Smollett leads a crew on a voyage to the title location.
The antagonist of Treasure Island, Long John Silver, joins the crew in this position. Thomas Mugridge has this job in Jack London’s The Sea-Wolf.
Treasure Island was written by this Scottish author of Kidnapped and The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Treasure Island
cook [accept obvious equivalents; accept quartermaster]
Robert Louis Stevenson &lt;MK&gt;
A poet of this era espoused a simple, direct style, as opposed to the intricate Latinate style of his rival’s collection <em>The</em> <em>Solitudes</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this era of a mystical nun best known for her poem “First Dream.”
This Golden Age author, the most prolific in Spanish history, was nicknamed “The Monster of Nature.” His over 3,000 works include Punishment without Revenge and Fuente Ovejuna [FWEN-tay oh-vay-HOO-nah].
A highlight of the Golden Age was Miguel de Cervantes’s novel about this man from La Mancha, who fights some windmills and travels with Sancho Panza.
Spanish Golden Age [or Siglo de oro] (The poets are Francisco de Quevedo and Luís de Góngora)
Félix Arturo Lope de Vega y Carpio
Don Quixote [accept Alonso Quixano] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about quotes from Shakespeare’s <em>Romeo</em> <em>and</em> <em>Juliet</em>.
The play’s prologue calls these two houses “alike in dignity.” Romeo and Juliet are members of these two feuding families; name both.
In Act 2, Scene 2, Juliet rebuffs Romeo’s attempt to swear a vow of love on this object, citing its “inconstant” nature, “lest that [Romeo’s] love prove likewise variable.”
Later in the same scene, Juliet bids adieu to Romeo, saying “Good night, good night!” and then remarking that “parting” is this. Give the full, alliterative, three-word phrase.
Capulets AND Montagues
the moon
parting is such sweet sorrow &lt;JW&gt;
Many of this collection’s stories center on the hunter Yermolay. For 10 points each:
Name this early Realist collection of short stories which ends with a kind of summation in “Forest and Steppe.” The title of one of its stories compares an indecisive nobleman to Hamlet.
The Sportsman’s Sketches were written by this Russian Realist, who most popularized the term “nihilism” with his character of Yevgeny Bazarov.
In a story from A Sportsman’s Sketches, Trifon Ivanych is a member of this profession from the “District.” Another member of this profession named Yuri Zhivago sidelines as a poet in a novel by Boris Pasternak.
A Sportsman’s Sketches [or The Hunting Sketches; or Sketches from a Hunter’s Album; or Zapiski ohotnika]
Ivan Turgenev (The nihilist Bazarov stars in Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons.)
doctor [or physician; accept “A District Doctor” or Doctor Zhivago] &lt;MK&gt;
Don accidentally sells a valuable one of these items at the beginning of a 1975 play. For 10 points each:
Name these items that Teach and Bob try to steal in a play by David Mamet. The play is titled for a particularly valuable series of them.
In this other Mamet play, Dave Moss schemes to betray his foulmouthed Chicago firm by giving up leads to a competitor.
Glengarry Glen Ross won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, but was only nominated for this other drama award. It’s common nickname is short for “Antoinette” Perry.
coins [accept buffalo nickels] (The play is American Buffalo.)
Glengarry Glen Ross
Tony Award &lt;MK&gt;
Aristotle said this genre was “a representation of inferior people.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre, whose “New” and “Old” varieties were practiced by Aristophanes and Menander. It often employs courtesans, parasites, and boastful soldiers as stock characters.
In this comedy, Calonice and the title character hatch a plan to end the Peloponnesian War. Near its opening, the old women of Athens take the Acropolis.
In Attic comedies like Lysistrata, this term refers to the debate that develops between the actor and chorus. In the Iliad, this concept, which means “struggle” in Greek, is reflected by a contest of allegiance between the gods and goddesses.
Ancient Greek Comedy
Lysistrata
agon &lt;SPQR&gt;
The central family of this novel got their fortune from a button factory owned by their father Norval. For 10 points each:
Name this novel with a highly nested structure, in which Iris Chase discloses her longtime affair with the pulp sci-fi author Alex Thomas.
The author of The Blind Assassin is most famous for a novel that features Scrabble games in a theocratic state with this name. This Biblical place names a 2004 novel by Housekeeping author Marilynne Robinson.
This Canadian woman wrote The Blind Assassin and created the Republic of Gilead in her novel The Handmaid’s Tale.
The Blind Assassin
Republic of Gilead
Margaret Atwood &lt;JR&gt;
The owner of this location, Sir Thomas Bertram, leaves early in the novel to deal with “problems” on his plantation in Antigua. For 10 points each:
Name this location dominated by the shrewish Mrs. Norris, who’s the aunt of the protagonist, Fanny.
In this other novel by the author of Mansfield Park, the greedy Fanny Dashwood stops her husband John from taking financial care of his half-sisters. Those half-sisters, Elinor and Marianne, represent its title characteristics.
Both of the aforementioned Fannys were created by this author of Sense and Sensibility. Fanny Burney’s novel Cecilia inspired the title of this author’s Pride and Prejudice.
Mansfield Park [accept Mansfield Parsonage or any other part of the Mansfield Estate]
Sense and Sensibility
Jane Austen &lt;MK&gt;
Captain Vere condemns the protagonist of this novel to death with the words “Struck dead by an angel of God! Yet the angel must hang!” For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose title sailor is executed for murdering John Claggart. This unfinished novel, its author’s last, ends with a newspaper extract and a ballad that both seem to contradict the main plot.
This American author of Typee wrote Billy Budd, as well as Moby-Dick.
At the end of Moby-Dick, Ishmael escapes the wreckage of the Pequod atop one of these objects, which Queequeg had custom-made.
Billy Budd, Sailor [accept Billy Budd, Foretopman]
Herman Melville
a coffin [accept casket] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about American artist Faith Ringgold.
Ringgold is best-known for works like Tar Beach 2, which tell stories through this medium. A number of works in this medium were made by ex-slave Harriet Powers.
Ringgold was born during this period of African-American cultural ferment, which centered around its namesake New York neighborhood in the 1920s.
A recurring motif in Ringgold’s sculpture are these objects, which are a major part of the arts of Dogon, Fang, Yoruba, and other cultures. These objects are often used as part of ritual dances.
story quilts
Harlem Renaissance
masks [prompt on costumes; accept masquerades] &lt;JR&gt;
In the <em>Rhetoric</em>, Aristotle identifies two main types of this concept, the general and the particular. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek rhetorical term, which denotes common sources of information or recurrent subject matter. It literally means “place,” and it was a key part in the rhetorical canon of invention.
This text by Aristotle defines a number of literary terms, including hamartia and catharsis. It argues that a tragic hero should be noble, and his downfall should inspire fear and pity in the audience.
Aristotle’s Poetics partly responds to the ideas this philosopher had put forth in dialogues like Ion. This man wrote that poets should be expelled from the ideal state in his Republic.
topos [or topoi; accept locus or loci; prompt on topics]
Poetics [or De Poetica; or Peri Poetikes]
Plato [or Platon] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This protagonist was the model for John Irving’s character of Owen Meany. For 10 points each:
Name this protagonist of a 1959 novel, who narrates his novel from a mental hospital. He takes a number of odd jobs, including modelling nude for an art studio, playing in a jazz band, and engraving tombstones.
Oskar Matzerath is the protagonist of The Tin Drum, the first novel in this German author’s Danzig Trilogy. He also wrote Crabwalk.
The fact that Oskar’s father dies swallowing a pin for this political party has been taken as a hint that Germany can’t simply try to ignore its years of rule by this party.
Oskar Matzerath
Günter (Wilhelm) Grass
Nazi Party [or National Socialist German Workers’ Party; or Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei; or NSDAP] &lt;MK&gt;
A poem titled for these animals notes that “Passion or conquest, wander where they will, Attend upon them still.” For 10 points each:
Name these title animals whose hearts “have not grown old” in a poem about “nine-and-fifty” of them.
This French symbolist wrote “Andromache! I think of you” in his “The Swan,” included in his 1857 collection Les Fleurs du mal.
This poet wrote that “after many a summer dies the swan” in his “Tithonus.” He also wrote about a creature that lives “Below the thunders of the upper deep” in “The Kraken.”
swans [prompt on birds; accept “The Wild Swans at Coole”]
Charles Pierre Baudelaire
Alfred, Lord Tennyson &lt;CK&gt;
This novel’s title is taken from a line of Derek Walcott’s poem “The Swamp.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel that begins just after three people are killed in a fire. It focuses on the schoolteacher Munira, who falls in love with the barmaid Wanja. Its author also wrote Weep Not, Child and Decolonising the Mind.
Petals of Blood was written by Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o, an author from this country. Isak Dinesen described living on a plantation in this modern country in Out of Africa.
In Decolonising the Mind, Ngũgĩ described his decision to stop writing in this European language. Chinua Achebe, on the other hand, wrote in this language and praised the broad audience it gave to many African writers.
Petals of Blood
Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]
English &lt;MK&gt;
Unferth gives Beowulf one of these weapons called Hrunting. For 10 points each:
Name these weapons. In Lewis Carroll’s “Jabberwocky,” one of these weapons goes “snicker-snack.”
Even though Hrunting “had never failed the hand of anyone,” Beowulf was forced to discard it when it proved ineffective against this enemy. This is the monster Beowulf fights between Grendel and the Dragon.
Earlier in the epic, Beowulf defeated Grendel with his bare hands at this location. This place’s name means “House of the Deer.”
sword [or “vorpal blade”]
Grendel’s mother [accept reasonable equivalents; do not accept or prompt on just “Grendel”]
Heorot &lt;SPQR&gt;
In one of this man’s plays, the title character is delighted to find that he’s been speaking prose his whole life after hiring tutors to teach him how to become an aristocrat. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century author of The Bourgeois Gentleman. Arnolphe fruitlessly schemes to marry the teenager Agnes in his play The School for Wives.
Molière has been considered an exemplary writer in this genre, which satirizes contemporary society and fashionable behaviors. This genre was particularly popular among Restoration playwrights.
Molière introduced a species of theater mixing comedy with this highly choreographed form of dance. Most of the terms in this kind of dance are French, since it was extensively developed in 17th-century France.
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
comedy of manners [prompt on partial answer]
ballets &lt;MK/JR&gt;
This character is investigated by the psychologist Edward Pointsman and the statistician Roger Mexico. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose sexual encounters are used to predict the landing sites of V-2 rockets in a 1973 novel.
Tyrone Slothrop appears in this novel in which he hunts for a black device called the S-Gerät. This huge postmodern American novel opens with the line “A screaming comes across the sky.”
Thomas Pynchon’s Gravity’s Rainbow is set during this war. Kurt Vonnegut’s Slaughterhouse-Five is set during the American bombing of Dresden, Germany during this war.
Tyrone Slothrop [accept either name]
Gravity’s Rainbow
World War II [or Second World War] &lt;CK&gt;
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn refused to receive this award in person for fear of being expelled permanently from the USSR. For 10 points each:
Name this annual literary award, which Boris Pasternak was forced by the USSR to decline. Bob Dylan was controversially given it in 2016.
Solzhenitsyn’s character Ivan Denisovich is a member of Gang 104 along with a Baptist with this first name. This is the first name of the youngest Karamazov brother, who’s a novice in a monastery.
Solzhenitsyn notoriously accused fellow Nobel laureate Mikhail Sholokhov of plagiarism. Sholokhov worked in this literary style, which was founded by the 1906 novel Mother.
Nobel Prize in Literature
Alyosha [accept Alyoshka or Alexei]
socialist realism [prompt on partial answer] &lt;MK/JR&gt;
In this woman’s most famous novel, Ifemelu starts the blog “Raceteenth” after moving to America. For 10 points each:
Name this Nigerian author of Americanah.
“Raceteenth” refers to the holiday Juneteenth, which titles an unfinished second novel. This was its author’s first novel, whose unnamed black narrator is forced into a “Battle Royale” and meets Ras the Destroyer.
Invisible Man was written by this man.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Invisible Man
Ralph (Waldo) Ellison &lt;JR&gt;
This novelist was first published by <em>Encyclopedia</em> <em>Britannica</em> publisher Archibald Constable. For 10 points each:
Name this British author of the poem The Lady of the Lake, who popularized the historical novel in Europe with an 1814 novel.
Robin Hood was reinterpreted as the character Locksley for this novel by Sir Walter Scott, which is part of his Waverley series.
In Scott’s The Heart of Midlothian, Jeanie Deans attempts to free her sister Effie from Old Tolbooth, one of these locations. Oscar Wilde wrote “De Profundis” while in one of these institutions in Reading.
Sir Walter Scott
Ivanhoe
prison [or jail] &lt;MK&gt;
In a play by this man, Troy Maxson attempts to prevent his son Cory from playing football for fear he will be racially discriminated against. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Fences and a play in which Boy Willie attempts to sell the title object, The Piano Lesson.
The only part of Wilson’s Pittsburgh Cycle not to be set in Pittsburgh is this play, in which Levee stabs Toledo, and Sylvester overcomes his stutter to record the intro to the title song.
In The Piano Lesson, one of these spirits tries to prevent the movement of the title piano. Ebenezer Scrooge is visited by spirits of this kind representing Christmas Past, Present, and Future in A Christmas Carol.
August Wilson [accept Frederick August Kittel Jr.]
Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom
ghosts [accept clear equivalents like specters] &lt;CK&gt;
This man planned for his long poem <em>The</em> <em>Prelude</em> to actually be a prelude to a gargantuan poem called <em>The</em> <em>Recluse</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this English Romantic poet, whose “We Are Seven” and “Tintern Abbey” are included in Lyrical Ballads, which he wrote with Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Wordsworth’s poem “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud” describes “a host” of these things.
Wordsworth’s “Lucy” poems may have partly been about this sister of his, who wrote the classic Grasmere Journal. Her account of daffodils “dancing” is suspiciously close to William’s, which was written two years later.
William Wordsworth
daffodils [prompt on flowers]
Dorothy (Mae Ann) Wordsworth &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
For 10 points each—answer the following about the structure of Greek tragedy:
Greek tragedies featured this crowd of actors, who collectively comment on the action and often goad the protagonist to action.
Many critics have attacked Euripides for his overuse of this plot device, whereby a mythical figure like Heracles steps in at the last moment to save the protagonist.
Aristotle thought that the action of tragedy should be describable by this Greek term, meaning it “represents” the world. This word titles a history of representation in Western Literature by Erich Auerbach.
Greek chorus
deus ex machina [or apo mekhanes theos; accept God from the machine]
mimesis &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about a family of poets:
First, name this Confessional poet who won the National Book Award for the book Life Studies, which includes the poems “Waking in the Blue” and “Skunk Hour.”
James Russell Lowell is counted with this man as one of the Fireside Poets. At the age of 19, this man wrote a poem about joining “the innumerable caravan” of death, which begins “To him who in the love of Nature holds”.
Amy Lowell’s collection Fir-Flower Poets consists of translations from this East Asian Language. Poets in this language included Du Fu and Bai Juyi.
Robert (Traill Spence) Lowell (IV)
William Cullen Bryant (The poem is “Thanatopsis.”)
Classical Chinese [or Zhongwen; accept Mandarin or Hanyu] &lt;MK&gt;
One of this man’s characters drowns a crowd in urine after climbing the tower of Notre Dame. For 10 points each:
Name this French author known for a series of truly filthy novels about two giants.
Rabelais wrote Gargantua and Pantagruel in this century, in which Michel de Montaigne also wrote. Blaise Pascal and René Descartes wrote in the century after this one.
Rabelais created a hilariously incompetent character named Perrin Dandin with this profession. In a 20th-century play, Azdak temporarily becomes one of these people.
François Rabelais
16th century [or 1500s; or quinzième siècle]
judge [accept synonyms like justice, magistrate, etc.] (The play is The Caucasian Chalk Circle.) &lt;JR&gt;
A character in this story tells its antagonist “Why you're one of my babies. You’re one of my own children!” For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Bailey and her family come across the Misfit.
This Southern Gothic author, who often included elements of her Catholic faith in her stories, wrote “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.” Her novels include The Violent Bear It Away and Wise Blood.
In “Good Country People”, O’Connor wrote about Hulga Hopewell, who changes her name from Joy to piss off her mother. At the story’s end, purported Bible salesman Manley Pointer steals this object from Hulga.
“A Good Man Is Hard to Find”
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
her prosthetic leg [prompt on partial answer; accept any answer that indicates an artificial or replacement leg] &lt;MK&gt;
This playwright was almost certainly stabbed to death at the age of 29 by Ingram Frizer. For 10 points each:
Name this Elizabethan author of the two-part play Tamburlaine the Great. In one of his plays, the title character asks “Was this the face that launch’d a thousand ships?”
In a Marlowe play, Barabas, a Maltese member of this religious group, falls into his own trap for a Turkish prince. That play inspired Shakespeare to create one of these people named Shylock in The Merchant of Venice.
A Marlowe poem titled for a member of this profession begins with the line “Come live with me and be my love.” Edmund Spenser wrote a “Calender” titled for members of this profession.
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
Jews [accept clear equivalents; accept The Jew of Malta]
shepherd [accept reasonable equivalents like herdsman; accept “The Passionate Shepherd to his Love” or The Shepherd’s Calender] &lt;MK&gt;
In <em>Kafka</em> <em>on</em> <em>the</em> <em>Shore</em>, Nakata is able to communicate with these creatures after the Rice Bowl Hill incident. For 10 points each:
Name these animals. The plot of The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle is set in motion when Toru Okada loses one of these animals.
Kafka on the Shore and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle were both written by this contemporary novelist.
The title of Murakami’s Norwegian Wood comes from the song that Watanabe hears playing as he lands in this country. Erich Maria Remarque, an author from this country, wrote All Quiet on the Western Front.
cats
Haruki Murakami [accept names in either order]
Germany [or Deutschland; accept West Germany] &lt;CK&gt;
This essay claims that “envy is ignorance” and “imitation is suicide.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1841 Transcendentalist essay, the origin of the quote, “A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” It also states “Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string.”
“Self-Reliance” is an essay by this American philosopher, a major influence on Walt Whitman and Henry David Thoreau.
This other essay by Emerson, which largely describes his disillusionment with the title concept, is the source of the line “We live among surfaces, and the true art of life is to skate well on them.”
“Self-Reliance”
Ralph Waldo Emerson
“Experience” &lt;JW&gt;
In Canto 9 of this epic, Vasco da Gama escapes the Muslims and lands on the “Isle of Love,” where he feasts with Nereids. For 10 points each:
Name this poem by Luís de Camões, which is considered the national epic of Portugal.
This sea-deity, who has become Vasco da Gama’s lover, prophecies the future of Portuguese conquest in Book 10 of The Lusiads. This woman turns Aesacus into a diving bird in Ovid’s Metamorphoses.
The Lusiads were modelled on this epic by Virgil, whose title character causes Dido to commit suicide by leaving Carthage for Italy.
The Lusiads [or Os Lusíadas]
Tethys
The Aeneid [or Aeneis] &lt;SPQR&gt;
Jerry impales himself on a knife at the end of Edward Albee’s first play, which is titled <em>The</em> <em>[this</em> <em>kind</em> <em>of</em> <em>place]</em> <em>Story</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of location where Slaughterhouse-Five protagonist Billy Pilgrim is kept with the pornographic actress Montana Wildhack on the planet Tralfamadore.
“Phony”-hater Holden Caulfield takes his sister Phoebe to the zoo in this novel by J.D. Salinger.
Yank visits a zoo and sympathizes with the title Hairy Ape in a play by this American author, whose other expressionist plays include The Emperor Jones and The Great God Brown.
zoos [accept The Zoo Story]
The Catcher in the Rye
Eugene (Gladstone) O’Neill &lt;CK&gt; Tiebreaker
This system supposedly arose in opposition to the idea that the “noble” and “strong” are the same as the good. For 10 points each:
Name this ethical system that purportedly values traits like kindness and humility. At the same time, it is supposedly fueled by a deep resentment of its opposite’s superior strength.
Friedrich Nietzsche described slave morality in Beyond Good and Evil, which is full of these short philosophical statements. These statements comprise the majority of Nietzsche’s Human, All Too Human.
Human, All Too Human describes a “free spirit” that sounds a lot like this kind of superior person, which he described in Thus Spake Zarathustra. This kind of man, often known by a German term, can create his own values.
slave morality [prompt on partial answer; accept Sklavenmoral]
aphorisms [or Aphorismen; do not accept or prompt on similar words like “maxims”]
Übermensch [accept Overman; prompt on Superman] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about authors of the Roman Golden Age.
The Golden Age is considered to have begun with the first speech of this man, who delivered orations against Verres, Catiline, and Mark Antony. He also wrote On Duties and the Tusculan Disputations.
This Golden Age author coined phrases like “nunc est bibendum” in his Odes and Ars Poetica. Millenia before Drake, this man warned you that you only live once, saying “seize the day.”
Horace attacked others in his Satires and in works in this short genre, which he was the first to use in Latin. In an ode, this section follows the strophe and antistrophe.
Marcus Tullius Cicero [accept Tully]
Horace [accept Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
epodes &lt;SPQR&gt;
This actor’s character gives a Ferris wheel speech about how insignificant other individual humans are in the movie <em>The</em> <em>Third</em> <em>Man</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this man who starred as a comically fat Falstaff in his movie Chimes at Midnight. He also narrated and performed magic tricks in his movie about hoax biographies and art forgeries, F for Fake.
Welles is best known for directing and starring in this 1941 movie, in which the title newspaper magnate dies after saying the mysterious word “Rosebud.”
In the movie, Charles Foster Kane’s enormous estate is given this name, which references a poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge about a “stately-pleasure dome.”
(George) Orson Welles
Citizen Kane
Xanadu (The poem is “Kubla Khan.”) &lt;JR&gt;
Langston Hughes translated a collection named for these people, which opens with a “Ballad of the Moon, Moon.” For 10 points each:
Identify these namesake people of a 1928 collection that includes the poem “Green how I want you green.”
Gypsy Ballads were written by this poet of “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter,” who also wrote the play Blood Wedding.
Lorca, who was gay, included a long series of homophobic slurs in his “Ode to Walt Whitman,” which featured in a collection named for this city. Whitman wrote a poem about “crossing” a ferry in this city.
gypsies [or gitanos; accept Gypsy Ballads or Romancero Gitano]
Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca]
New York City [or NYC; or New York, New York; accept Brooklyn; accept Poet in New York or Poeta en Nueva York] &lt;JR&gt;
This character’s inner turmoil is mirrored by massive flooding in the fictional valley of Wahlheim. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of a 1774 novel. He commits suicide and is buried under a linden tree after unsuccessfully pursuing Albert’s fiancée.
Young Werther was created by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe [yoh-hahn vulf-gahng fon GUR-tuh], who’s best known for a play about this scholar, who strikes a bargain with the devil Mephistopheles.
Goethe’s Werther is often associated with this proto-Romantic literary movement. This movement’s name is often translated with the English phrase “storm and stress.”
Young Werther [accept The Sorrows of Young Werther or Die Leiden des jungen Werthers]
Dr. Heinrich Faust
Sturm und Drang &lt;MK&gt;
This poem’s metrical scheme was inspired by Elias Lönnrot’s <em>Kalevala</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1855 epic poem in 22 books that ends with the title man welcoming “pale-faced” Christian missionaries to his village.
The Song of Hiawatha was written by this American poet, who also wrote “The Wreck of the Hesperus” and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
In Lewis Carroll’s parody of Longfellow’s poem, Hiawatha disastrously attempts to perform this action with a rich family. Susan Sontag claimed that this action makes us chronically voyeuristic in a book On [it].
The Song of Hiawatha
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
photography [accept word forms and clear synonyms; accept Hiawatha’s Photographing; accept On Photography] &lt;MK&gt;
The Not-I-bird serves as a harbinger of death in a story told to the Praise Singer in this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which a tone-deaf colonial administrator wears a sacred egungun costume to a masked ball.
Death and the King’s Horseman was written by this contemporary playwright and Nobel laureate.
Aside from his plays, Soyinka is well-known for works in this genre like Aké: The Years of Childhood. Maya Angelou’s many works in this nonfiction genre include I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Death and the King’s Horseman
Wole Soyinka [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka]
memoirs [or autobiography] &lt;MK&gt;
This man wrote a play about the anarchist Jack Tanner, who works with the League of the Sierra. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish socialist playwright who wrote Man and Superman. In another of his plays, the title woman holds the title militaristic rank in the London Salvation Army.
Patricia Campbell originated the role of the protagonist of this Shaw play, in which the Cockney woman Eliza Doolittle learns etiquette from Henry Higgins.
The title character of Shaw’s play Cashel Byron’s Profession does this activity for a living. In The Sun Also Rises, Jake is contrasted with Robert Cohn, who was a champion at this sport in college.
(George) Bernard Shaw (That play is Major Barbara.)
Pygmalion
boxing [accept prizefighting] &lt;MK&gt;
This play forms a “trilogy of theater within the theater” with <em>Each</em> <em>In</em> <em>His</em> <em>Own</em> <em>Way</em> and <em>Tonight</em> <em>We</em> <em>Improvise</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1921 play, in which The Father attempts to seduce The Step-Daughter in Madame Pace’s shop. This play opens with a rehearsal of Luigi Pirandello’s fictional play Mixing It Up.
In Pirandello’s other real play Henry IV, the protagonist imagines himself to be the title Emperor after falling off one of these animals. Shakespeare’s Richard III cries out “my kingdom for” one of these animals.
In Pirandello’s Right You Are (If You Think So) Mr. Laudisi discusses insanity with one of these objects. In Sartre’s No Exit, Inès offers to serve as one of these things for Estelle.
Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d’autore]
horses [accept “A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse”]
mirrors &lt;CK&gt;
In this work, Sun Wukong urinates on five pillars before realizing they are actually the fingers of Buddha’s hand. For 10 points each:
Name this 100 chapter novel in which the Monkey King accompanies a monk and a sand demon while traveling to Vulture Peak in India.
Journey to the West was written during this Chinese dynasty which was succeeded by the Qing dynasty and during which three of the Four Great Classical Novels were written, including Water Margin and Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
This last of China’s Four Great Classical Novels was produced during the Qing dynasty and follows two branches of the Jia family. In it, Jia Baoyu is born with a glowing piece of jade in his mouth.
Journey to the West [or Xi You Ji]
Ming dynasty
Dream of the Red Chamber [or Hong Lou Meng, or The Story of the Stone] &lt;McMaken&gt;
This story’s ending can be seen as a reversal of the twist ending of “The Necklace.” For 10 points each:
Name this Henry James short story in which a string of pearls is eventually found to be genuine. In “The Necklace,” Madame Forestier tells Mathilde that the original necklace was “made of [this].”
“The Necklace” is a short story written by this French author who often wrote pessimistic stories set during the Franco-Prussian War.
Another of Maupassant’s most famous short stories is this work, in which the title character sleeps with a Prussian officer so that a carriage and its passengers can leave.
“Paste”
Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant
“Boule de Suif” [or “Ball of Fat” or “Dumpling” or “Butterball” or “Ball of Lard”] &lt;Jin&gt;
This novel is known for having a relatively happy ending compared to its author’s other novels, despite its ambiguous ending. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that details the romantic relationship between a young member of the Mellstock choir and the schoolmistress Fancy Day. Its title taken from Shakespeare’s As You Like It.
The aforementioned young choir member has this surname. His grandfather makes an appearance in another of the author’s novels where he allegedly causes a raging bull to lay down by playing it a Christmas hymn on a fiddle.
Under the Greenwood Tree was the second of this author’s “Wessex novels.” This author is also known for such other works as Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
Under the Greenwood Tree: A Rural Painting of the Dutch School
William Dewy [or Dick Dewy]
Thomas Hardy &lt;Jin&gt;
Answer the following questions about a certain American author, for 10 points each:
One of the first great American authors, this pioneer of detective fiction died of unknown causes, with suggested causes ranging from diabetes to murder. He wrote “Berenice” and “The Purloined Letter.”
This Poe short story features an unnamed narrator who claims to have been disturbed by an old man with a “vulture eye.”
This other Poe short story won first prize in a newspaper contest and also helped to popularize cryptograms as a literary device.
Edgar Allan Poe
“The Tell-Tale Heart”
“The Gold-Bug” &lt;Bykov&gt;
Answer the following about a British playwright and poet. For 10 points each:
Barabas poisons his daughter Abigail after Abigail joins a nunnery in this author’s play The Jew of Malta. This contemporary of Shakespeare also wrote Doctor Faustus and “The Passionate Shepherd to his Love.”
In this unfinished Marlowe poem, a boy from Abydos is briefly kidnapped by Neptune while swimming across Hellespont to be with his lover. This poem was completed by George Chapman after Marlowe’s death.
In this Marlowe drama, the titular character is a military leader who orders Bajazeth to be imprisoned within a cage and be used as a footstool. This two-part play has a prologue delivered by Machiavel, a stage villain.
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
“Hero and Leander”
Tamburlaine the Great &lt;Kumar&gt;
Answer the following about the penultimate American recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, For 10 points each:
In this Morrison novel, Sethe [SETH-uh] cuts her two-year-old daughter’s throat to save her from slavery, but then later struggles against the ghost of her baby.
The ghost in Beloved appears to haunt this address. Sethe’s youngest daughter almost never leaves this address, while her brothers Howard and Bulgar flee.
In this novel, the Morgan and Fleetwood families live in the all-black town of Ruby, Oklahoma. This novel is often interpreted to be the final novel of a trilogy.
Beloved
124 Bluestone Road
Paradise &lt;Kumar&gt;
This poet wrote a poem consisting of four quatrains of iambic trimeter to imitate a certain type of dance, For 10 points each:
Name this Michigan poet who also stated that “I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow,” and concluded that “I learn by going where I have to go” in his poem “The Waking.”
Roethke wrote an elegy for his father in “My Papa’s Waltz,” which he begins by saying that there was enough of this substance in his father’s breath “to make a small boy dizzy.”
This former U.S. Poet Laureate claimed that Roethke was “the greatest poet that [the U.S.] has produced.” He wrote about a graphic artist’s rape at gunpoint during a canoe trip in his novel Deliverance.
Theodore Roethke
whiskey
James Lafayette Dickey &lt;Jin&gt;
This character was presumably made mute as a child after she was raped by a drunken soldier during the Thirty Years’ War. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is shot after trying to warn a Protestant city about a sneak attack from Catholic forces by loudly beating a drum in the middle of the night.
Kattrin appears in Mother Courage and her Children, a 1939 play by this German playwright, who criticized the rise of fascism and Nazism in Europe at the time through the play.
Brecht developed a form of theater known by this term, which included plays that formulated simple situations to address ethical questions and attempted to remove separation between the actors and audience.
Kattrin [or Catherine]
Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht]
lehrstücke [or learning-plays] &lt;Jin&gt;
This novel features cameos from artists such as Hells Angels and The Grateful Dead. For 10 points each:
Name this Tom Wolfe novel that follows Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters and their cross-country adventures as well as their experiences experimenting with LSD.
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test is one of the most famous works of this literary style, unconventional for its subjective perspective and writers’ immersion in their story matter.
Wolfe also wrote this controversial 1989 essay featured in Harper’s Magazine in which he criticized contemporary American novels for retreating from realism.
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test
New Journalism
“Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast” &lt;Jin&gt;
Many Jewish individuals have written autobiographical accounts of the Holocaust. For 10 points each:
This Romanian-born American Jew wrote the memoir Night to describe his experiences in Auschwitz and Buchenwald. He also wrote “The Jews of Silence.”
This girl lived in an attic with her family for two years while hiding from the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, which she recounts in her work The Diary of a Young Girl.
This is Anne Frank’s older sister. She apparently kept a diary of her own that has never been found, and both her and Anne died of typhus a few months after being transferred out of Auschwitz to a different camp.
Elie Wiesel
Anne Frank
Margot Frank &lt;McMaken&gt;
Michel Foucault referenced this work in his <em>The Order of Things,</em> commenting on the author’s system of Chinese taxonomy he made up in writing this work. For 10 points each:
For 10 points, name this essay that critiques the work of an English philosopher, An Essay towards a Real Character and a Philosophical Language, which proposes a system for a universal language.
The same author who wrote “The Analytical Language of John Wilkins” also wrote about this character, a German spy who conveys the reveals the location of an artillery park by murdering a man who shared the location’s name.
This Argentine author wrote both “The Analytical Language of John Wilkins” and The Garden of Forking Paths, in which Dr. Yu Tsun appears. He is also known for other works such as “The Aleph” and “The Library of Babel.”
“The Analytical Language of John Wilkins”
Dr. Yu Tsun [accept either underlined portion]
Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo &lt;Jin&gt;
This collection includes a poem in which the speaker concludes that he is “a happy fly” regardless of whether he lives or dies. For 10 points each:
Name this poetry collection that also includes a poem about a speaker who waters his wrath “night and morning with [his] tears,” eventually murdering his foe at the end of the poem.
This British poet wrote a two-part poem about a boy who works as a chimney sweeper. He split those parts among his collections Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience.
Blake wrote this poem that is paired with an illustration of the title plant represented as a human. This poem is included as the 12th section of Benjamin Britten’s song cycle Songs and Proverbs of William Blake.
Songs of Experience
William Blake
“Ah! Sun-flower” &lt;Jin&gt;
One character in this work states that “everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness” while discussing childhood with his friend’s sister. For 10 points each:
Name this novella in which John T. Unger goes to the middle of nowhere in Montana to visit his classmate, whose father owns the title object.
“The Diamond as Big as the Ritz” was included in the collection Tales of the Jazz Age, written by this Lost Generation American author.
Fitzgerald wrote this essay, the first in a group of three that were published in Esquire magazine in 1936. It starts with the pessimistic quote, “Of course all life is a process of breaking down,” reflecting the author’s mental state at the time.
“The Diamond as Big as the Ritz”
F. Scott Fitzgerald
“The Crack-Up” &lt;Jin&gt;
Characters within this group of novels include Al-Sayyid Ahmad and Kamal Abd al-Jawad, who may have been based on the author himself. For 10 points each:
Name this group of novels that follow the three generations of the Abd al-Jawad family, with book titles named after real-life streets in the author’s hometown.
This Egyptian author wrote the Cairo Trilogy as well as the novel Children of Gebelawi, a novel that resulted in him getting stabbed in the neck by Muslim extremists 35 years after its publication.
Mahfouz wrote about the assassination of President Anwar Sadat in this aptly-titled novel, which is told from the point of view of the Muhtashimi family.
Cairo Trilogy
Naguib Mahfouz
The Day the Leader was Killed &lt;Jin&gt;
This character has dreams of his impending death, and a wife of his recommends that he take laxatives. For 10 points each:
Name this often adapted character who closed his eyes and sang to prove his worth, and was abducted by a fox. He is the protagonist of The Nun’s Priest’s Tale.
Along with The Nun’s Priest’s Tale, Chaucer included this story in The Canterbury Tales. This tale tells of Palamon and Arcite [AR-see-tay], who fight for Emily’s love.
John Fletcher and William Shakespeare wrote this adaptation of the Knight’s Tale. In it, Palamon and Arcite fought for Creon, until Theseus defeated and imprisoned them.
Chanticleer
Knight’s Tale
The Two Noble Kinsmen &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This poet wrote about “masks and bergamasques,” whose music “makes the birds in the trees dream / And sob with ecstasy.” For 10 points each:
Name this French poet who wrote the poetry collection Saturnine Poems. He was a lover of another French poet, Arthur Rimbaud.
This Verlaine poem was included in Saturnine Poems and was used to send messages during World War II. Specifically, its first line, “wound my heart with a monotonous languor,” was used to signal that Operation Overlord would start in 48 hours.
The third section of T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land” contains the line “Et, ô ces voix d'enfants chantant dans la coupole!” [“et, oh say vwah den-fahn shan-tahn dahns la coo-pole”], which is taken from the last line of this Verlaine poem about the titular knight.
Paul-Marie Verlaine
“Autumn Song” [or “Chanson d'automne”]
“Parsifal” &lt;Jin&gt;
In this dystopian book, humans are manufactured in labs rather than by natural means. For 10 points each:
Name this book about Bernard and Lenina’s visit to a Savage reservation where they encounter John the Savage.
Brave New World is takes place in 632 A.F. The A.F. refers to the numbers of years after this event occurred. Description acceptable.
Brave New World gets its title from this work. This Shakespearean play has more music than any other of his plays, and composers such as Jean Sibelius, Hector Berlioz, and Engelbert Humperdinck have written incidental music for it.
Brave New World
“The year in which Ford’s first Model T rolled off his assembly line” [or any description about the Model T hitting the market or selling Model Ts, prompt until you get “Model T”]
The Tempest &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This character refuses to answer her father when she and her two sisters are to proclaim their love. For 10 points each:
Name this character who chooses to stay silent and receive no land, unlike Regan and Goneril.
This king dies in Cordelia’s arms, and also gives his name to the play in which he appears.
In a similar work by the Brothers Grimm, the elder daughters flatter the king, while the youngest brings him a decorated container of this substance. The king was so sad that she only loved him more than this substance that he demanded her execution.
Cordelia
King Lear
salt &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This story ends when the narrator refuses to listen to a story about a one-eyed, stubby-tailed cow. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Simon Wheeler tells the story of the title animal named Dan’l Webster, who does not budge when a stranger pours lead shot into his mouth.
In this short story, an unnamed Manhattan lawyer tells the story of the title character, who begins working as a legal document copier along with Nippers and Turkey and eventually responds to everybody’s requests by saying, “I would prefer not to.”
In this short story by Bret Harte, Oakhurst, Stumpy, and other gold prospectors raise a baby boy whose mother dies in childbirth, but that boy eventually dies along with Kentuck in a flash flood.
“The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County” [or “The Notorious Jumping Frog of Calaveras County”, or “Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog”]
“Bartleby, the Scrivener”
“The Luck of Roaring Camp” &lt;McMaken&gt;
The main character of this story proclaims that “if I had plenty of land, I shouldn’t fear the Devil himself,” upon which Satan accepts his challenge. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Pahom needs to walk around as large an area as he can, so long as he returns to the starting point by sundown. In the end, he runs so hard that he drops dead.
“How Much Land Does a Man Need?” was a story by this man, the author of novellas such as Hadji Murad and The Death of Ivan Ilyich.
In The Death of Ivan Ilyich, Ilyich is a judge with a terminal illness who dies when performing this activity. Description acceptable.
“How Much Land Does a Man Need?” [or “How Much Land Does a Man Require?” or “Mnoga li cheloveku zemli nuzhna?”]
Leo Tolstoy
falling while hanging up his curtains [prompt gratuitously and be lenient] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This character cuts Dr. Seward’s arm, and licks the blood from off the floor. For 10 points each:
Name this character who ate animals raw, culminating in him trying to feed successively larger animals to each other in hopes of gaining their life energy.
Renfield and Dr. Seward are characters in this novel. The nemesis of this novel’s titular character is Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Three female vampires known as the weird women, are also known by this popular name. It also titles a 1960 Hammer film also about Abraham Van Helsing.
Renfield
Dracula
the Brides of Dracula &lt;Yoshida&gt;
One master helped bring this thing to its height from his experience with hexagrams from the <em>I Ching</em> in the Bamboo Grove and with the historian Father Jacobus in a Benedictine monastery. For 10 points each:
Name this “kind of synthesis of human learning” whose universal symbols allowed masters like Joseph Knecht to create games starting from a Bach fugue subject and leading to “a sentence out of Leibniz or the Upanishads.”
Joseph Knecht and previous masters of the Glass Bead Game were given this Latin title, whose name blurs the distinction between its nature as a game and as a school.
The Glass Bead Game is the last full-length novel by this German author who also wrote Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
The Glass Bead Game [or das Glasperlenspiel]
Magister Ludi
Hermann Hesse &lt;McMaken&gt;
St. Augustine gave the most popular name for this Latin text, the only to survive in its entirety. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Lucius tries to transform into a bird, only to be transformed into the titular animal. Give either title.
After eating a crown of roses held by a priest of this deity, Lucius is returned to human form. This is the name of the true form of the queen of heaven according to her.
An old woman in The Golden Ass tell the tale of these two lovers. This is one of the most famous sources for this tale, and includes talking towers and ants sorting grain.
The Golden Ass [or Asinus Aureus or Metamorphoses of Apuleius]
Isis [accept Campensis]
Cupid and Psyche &lt;Yoshida&gt;
While in a hot air balloon, this character astutely notes that if they were flying over Indiana, the land would be pink—the way it is on a map. For 10 points each:
Name this character who argues with his friend about the rights of religious leaders to take away people’s land in the name of their god, who appears in a novel named for that friend.
Huckleberry Finn, Tom Sawyer, and Jim are trapped on a hot air balloon in this novel, the third in a series centered around Huck’s friend. They make it all the way to Africa, and return rich, as usual.
Tom Sawyer Abroad is a novel by this American author.
Huckleberry Finn
Tom Sawyer Abroad [prompt on Tom Sawyer, I guess]
Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This creature burbled and went galumphing back when it died. For 10 points each:
Name this creature which titles a nonsense poem by Lewis Carroll that begins, “ ’Twas brillig, and the slithy toves / Did gyre and gimble in the wabe.”
“Jabberwocky” appears in this 1871 sequel of a work chronicling the fantastic journeys of a girl who fell through a rabbit hole.
In “Jabberwocky,” the speaker instructs the reader to “shun / The frumious Bandersnatch” and to “beware” this type of bird, which is described in Carroll’s later poem “The Hunting of the Snark” as “A desperate bird that lives in perpetual passion.”
the Jabberwock [accept “Jabberwocky”]
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There
the Jubjub bird &lt;McMaken&gt;
In the climax of this work, a struggle over a book inadvertently results in a lamp burning down the book and a library, for 10 points each:
Name this novel that features William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk investigating a series of deaths in an Italian monastery.
The Name of the Rose is by this Italian author of The Prague Cemetery and The Island of the Day Before.
Eco also wrote this satirical novel in which Belbo, Diotallevi, and Casaubon invent and begin to believe in their own conspiracy theory called “The Plan.”
The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa]
Umberto Eco
Foucault’s Pendulum [or Il pendolo di Foucault] &lt;Luc&gt;
Kobayashi Issa was a well-known practitioner of this form, and one work in this form describes the splash of a frog jumping into an ancient pond. For 10 points each:
Give this form of Japanese poetry consisting of 17 morae, or syllables.
The aforementioned frog poem was by this master of haiku who also wrote The Narrow Road to the Deep North. He took his name from a banana tree planted by his house.
Kanshi refers to another form of poetry of Japan that is influenced by and written in this language.
haiku
Matsuo Basho
Chinese &lt;Luc&gt;
This poem has no discernible meter, and the title almost flows into the work as though part of a note. For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the author apologizes to the addressee for eating “the plums / that were in / the icebox” and asks for forgiveness as “they were delicious / so sweet / and so cold.”
“This is Just to Say” is by this American physician and modernist poet who also wrote “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
Williams had corresponded with this other American poet who published both of their works in an anthology, Des Imagistes. This poet also defined Imagist poetry with “In A Station of the Metro.”
“This is Just to Say”
William Carlos Williams
Ezra Pound &lt;Luc&gt;
Herman Melville said that this work was as “deep as Dante,” and Henry James called it a “magnificent little romance.” For 10 points each:
Name this work which tells of a man’s loss of faith as he finds himself in the forest with his wife, Faith, and learns his entire Christian town is taking part in a witches sabbath.
Young Goodman Brown is a work by this author, who frequently wrote works that took place in the Salem Witch Trials. This author also wrote The House of the Seven Gables.
In this other Hawthorne work, Aylmer tries to perfect his wife’s body by removing the titular blemish, but ends up killing her instead.
Young Goodman Brown
Nathaniel Hawthorne
The Birth-Mark &lt;Yoshida&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about Russian protagonists who are arrested for suspicious reasons.
In this novel, the inhabitant of Cell 404 taps messages to his neighbor, known only as 402, and is interrogated by Gletkin. The protagonist of this book later confesses to plotting against Number One and the Party.
In Arthur Koestler’s Darkness at Noon, Number One supposedly represents this head of the Soviet Union. Solzhenitsyn described how this leader perpetuated Lenin’s use of the title institutions in The Gulag Archipelago.
This author wrote of Cincinnatus C.’s imprisonment for “gnostical turpitude” in Invitation to a Beheading. In contrast, this author wove an erratic tale about a deposed king of Zembla in Pale Fire.
Darkness at Noon
Josef Stalin (or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili)
Vladimir Nabokov &lt;Yue&gt;
Let us put on our Sunday best, and go for a stroll in the garden. For 10 points each:
In a short story by this author, German spy Yu Tsun murders Doctor Albert after realizing that his ancestor’s unfinished novel represents the eponymous “garden of forking paths.”
The Garden Party titles a satirical play by Václav Havel, an author from this modern day country who also served as its first president. Another writer from this modern day country wrote a play ending with Alquist handing over the world to Primus and Helena.
Octave Mirbeau’s The Torture Garden is a product of the French decadent movement, which also produced the works of the Marquis de Sade and this novel by Joris-Karl Huysman about a man who repudiates society in favor of pleasant artistic pursuit.
Jorge Luis Borges
Czech Republic
À rebours (or Against the Grain; or Against Nature) &lt;R. Li/Kuang&gt;
Near the end of this novel, the main character realizes that Isabella Thorpe’s “professions of attachment were now as disgusting as her excuses were empty, and her demands impudent.” For 10 points each:
Name this Jane Austen novel titled for a gloomy estate. The imaginative Catherine Morland falls in love with Henry Tilney and briefly believes his father has murdered his wife while visiting said estate.
Northanger Abbey satirizes this genre of fiction, of which Catherine is a voracious reader. Novels in this genre include Horace Walpole’s The Castle of Otranto and often feature locales with a namesake style of architecture.
Catherine particularly loves this author’s Gothic novel The Mysteries of Udolpho. Northanger Abbey notes that “charming as were all [this author’s] works...it was not in them perhaps that human nature...was to be looked for.”
Northanger Abbey
Gothic fiction (or Gothic novels)
Ann Radcliffe &lt;Yue&gt;
In this poem, a character “cursed the commonplace / and eyed a khaki suit with loathing.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem concerning the title resident of Tilbury Town, a “child of scorn” who was “born too late” and mourned “Romance” and “Art.”
This poet of “Miniver Cheevy” also wrote of a “gentleman from sole to crown” who “one calm summer night / went home and put a bullet through his head,” Richard Cory.
Climbing a hill and drinking out of a jug, this other resident of Tilbury Town sings “For auld lang syne” to himself “amid the silver loneliness / of night” in his title poem, which describes the town.
“Miniver Cheevy”
Edwin Arlington Robinson
Eben Flood (accept Mr. Flood or “Mr. Flood’s Party”) &lt;Yue&gt;
The journalist Herb Caen first popularized the name of this subculture. For 10 points each:
Name this counterculture movement of the 1960s, the members of which congregated en masse at Woodstock in 1969.
The hippie counterculture is considered to have started in this district of San Francisco, named after the intersection of the two namesake streets.
Many hippies visited San Francisco during the summer of 1967, a phenomenon which has since been dubbed the “Summer of this concept.”
hippies
Haight-Ashbury (or The Haight; accept The Upper Haight)
love (accept Summer of Love) &lt;Suh&gt;
A character in this novel repeatedly notes that he “believe[s] in being broad-minded and liberal” but dismisses the concerns of strikers as “all lies and fake figures.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel centering on a resident of Zenith who becomes Vice President of the Booster’s club and refuses to join the “Good Citizens’ League” after befriending Seneca Doane.
Babbitt is a novel by this American author of satires like Main Street, Elmer Gantry, and It Can’t Happen Here.
This other satirical American novel critiqued 1930s Hollywood through the eyes of the artist Tod Hackett, who plans to paint The Burning of Los Angeles.
Babbitt
Sinclair Lewis
The Day of the Locust &lt;Yue&gt;
In a novel, Parmenides’ <strong>[“par-meh-nuh-dees”]</strong> idea of this concept is refuted by discussing burdens that are “an image of life’s most intense fulfillment.” For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical concept that titles a novel contrasting it with the dramatic implications of Nietzsche’s eternal recurrence and Beethoven’s phrase “Es muss sein!”
Tomas, who exemplifies the lightness of being, has an affair with the artist Sabina in The Unbearable Lightness of Being, a novel by this Czech author.
This object is “a motif in the musical composition that was Sabina’s life,” as it functions as “a monument to time past” when she meets Tomas in Zurich as well as “a memento of Sabina’s father and of her grandfather.”
the lightness of being (accept The Unbearable Lightness of Being)
Milan Kundera
Sabina’s bowler hat (prompt on partial answer) &lt;Yue&gt;
This writer first rose to prominence by winning the <em>Juegos</em> <strong>[“hoo-ay-goes”]</strong> <em>Florales</em> poetry contest held in her country’s capital. For 10 points each:
Name this first Latin American winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature, known for poems like “The Decalogue of the Artist.” Her passion for education is demonstrated in the poem “His Name is Today.”
This other Latin American writer used an Albert Camus quote to title her 2017 novel, In the Midst of Winter. Her very first novel describes the travails of the Trueba family and is titled The House of the Spirits.
Both Mistral and Allende are writers from this South American nation.
Gabriela Mistral (or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga)
Isabel Allende
Chile (or the Republic of Chile) &lt;Suh&gt;
This character quotes one of Aesop’s fables by telling off another character for having “sung your shame and dropped your cheese, / To let the fox laugh at your emptiness.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, who uses his servant Mosca to mess with Voltore, Corbaccio, and Corvino as they try to inherit his fortune.
Volpone is a play by this author of The Alchemist and Bartholomew Fair, a contemporary of William Shakespeare.
Volpone interacts with English visitors like this crazy knight who discusses business plans with Peregrine in a Venetian piazza and whose talkative wife greatly annoys Volpone.
Volpone
Benjamin Jonson (or Ben Jonson)
Sir Politic Would-Be (accept either underlined answer) &lt;Yue&gt;
The 1993 novel <em>Pigs in Heaven</em> is the sequel to a novel named after this food. For 10 points each:
Name this food featured in the title of that Barbara Kingsolver work about Taylor Greer and her adoptive daughter Turtle. A poem by a different author about people eating this food says that “dinner is a casual affair.”
This poet of “The Bean Eaters” ended seven out of eight lines with the word “We” in her poem “We Real Cool.” Her only published novel is Maud Martha.
Brooks’ Maud Martha takes place in this city, which also titles a Carl Sandburg poem with an opening calling it “Hog Butcher for the World.” Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle takes place in this midwestern city.
beans (accept The Bean Trees or “The Bean Eaters”; accept more specific types of beans)
Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks
Chicago &lt;Levine&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these canine literary questions.
In a Mikhail Bulgakov novel titled for this organ, the dog Sharik morphs into an uncivilized human following an operation by Dr. Preobrazhensky. Edgar Allen Poe wrote a short story about a “Tell-Tale” one.
Dmitri Gurov encounters his lover Anna Sergeyevna and her “white Pomeranian” while visiting Yalta in this author’s short story “The Lady with the Dog.” In a play by this author, Olga, Maria, and Irina form the titular ensemble of siblings.
Poprishchin’s revelation that two dogs are writing letters to each other reveals his decline into insanity in a short story with this title. In another short story with this title, the narrator sees the words “EAT PEOPLE” in his books and begins to suspect that his townspeople are cannibals.
heart
Anton Chekhov
“Diary of a Madman” (accept “A Madman’s Diary”) &lt;R. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about governesses in Victorian literature.
First, name this character who becomes a governess at the Queen’s Crawley estate after leaving Amelia Sedley. This Vanity Fair character leaves that job when Sir Pitt Crawley proposes to marry her, and earlier, she throws a dictionary out of a carriage.
After being a teacher for two years at Lowood, this title character of a Charlotte Brontë novel becomes a governess at Thornfield Hall. At the end of the novel she appears in, this character marries Mr. Rochester.
The title character of this other novel works as a governess for the Bloomfield family and marries Edward Weston. This novel preceded the publication of its author’s early feminist novel The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.
Becky Sharp (accept either underlined part)
Jane Eyre
Agnes Grey &lt;Yue&gt;
This character notes that she would “pawn [her] soul to the devil to find out whether he is alive or dead.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who destroys Latunksy’s apartment with a hammer, hosts a midnight ball on Good Friday while escorted by Azezello, and reads from a manuscript about Yehudah of Kerioth in Apartment Number 50.
This Russian author wrote about Professor Woland wreaking havoc on MASSOLIT and interacting with the title lovers in The Master and Margarita.
Professor Woland is actually the disguise of this demonic figure, who in John Milton’s Paradise Lost falls from Heaven and resides in Hell.
Margarita Nikolayevna
Mikhail Bulgakov
Satan (accept the Devil or Lucifer) &lt;Yue&gt;
A character with this condition appears in a novel-within-a-novel written by Iris Chase after her sister drives off a bridge. For 10 points each:
Name this condition of the title “assassin” in that Margaret Atwood novel. In a novel by Portuguese author José Saramago, the doctor’s wife is the only one not afflicted by a surreal national epidemic of this condition.
Another Saramago novel has this title, and concerns a high school teacher who discovers his doppelganger in a movie. In a Dostoyevsky novel of this title, a government official goes crazy after meeting a much more successful version of himself.
Saramago also reimagined the life of this Biblical figure in a novel titled for “the gospel according to” this figure. Nikos Kazantzakis wrote a novel about the “last temptation of” this figure.
blindness (prompt on reasonable equivalents like not being able to see)
The Double
Jesus Christ (accept either or both underlined parts) &lt;R. Li&gt;
This character likes to walk along Wykeagy Avenue to observe the upper class. For 10 points each:
Name this character who kills the pregnant Roberta Alden by accidentally hitting her with a camera and then allowing her to drown.
Clyde Griffiths is executed for the murder of Roberta Alden at the end of this novel by Theodore Dreiser.
Early in the novel, Clyde works as a bellhop in a hotel in this state. Dorothy and Toto are swept away to Oz from this state.
Clyde Griffiths (accept either underlined part)
An American Tragedy
Kansas &lt;Suh&gt;
A character with this name disgracefully abandons the steamer <em>Patna</em> when it begins to sink, leaving most of the passengers behind. For 10 points each:
Identify this first name of a titular Joseph Conrad “lord” who is shot by his former friend Doramin after “Gentleman” Brown’s escape leads to Dain Waris’ death. A “lucky” man with this name is a history professor who is fired after an inebriated public lecture on “Merrie England” in another novel.
This author wrote Lucky Jim. His novel Take a Girl Like You follows Patrick Standish’s boorish attempts to woo the old-fashioned Jenny Bunn, culminating in his sexual assault of her at a party.
Amis was a member of a British literary movement named for “young men” of this emotion. Another member of that movement, John Osborne, penned a play about Jimmy and Alison Porter titled “look back in” this emotion.
Jim
Kingsley Amis
anger (accept word forms; accept Angry Young Men) &lt;R. Li&gt;
Brooks and streams are used to represent Alice moving around a world-sized board for this game in <em>Through the Looking Glass</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this game, the wizard’s variant of which is played by Harry and Ron in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone. Ron sacrifices himself in this game so that Harry can achieve checkmate.
A 1938 237-move match of this other game is recounted in a novel describing an old master’s loss to a younger player in a “retirement game.” An unexpected move in this game is compared to “smearing ink over a picture.”
This German described a game that has universal symbols by Joculator Basiliensis in The Glass Bead Game. He also wrote about a search for enlightenment in Siddhartha.
chess
go (accept The Master of Go)
Hermann Hesse &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about entomophagy, or the act of eating insects.
This man hosts the show titled “Bizarre Foods with” himself, on which he often eats insects including giraffe beetles in Madagascar and tarantulas in Cambodia.
Many people unintentionally commit entomophagy when eating this fruit, which is often eaten as jam inside a sweet roll. Wasps lay eggs inside these fruits before being digested.
A popular culinary bug is the larvae of coconut worms, which is considered a delicacy in this Southeast Asian country. Other well-known cuisine from this country include banh mi and pho [“fuh”].
Andrew Zimmern
figs
Vietnam &lt;Duffy&gt;
This character wonders if he should “have the strength to force the moment to its crisis” after noting how “the evening sleeps so peacefully.” For 10 points each:
Name this character titling a poem in which he is “not Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be.” At one point he wonders “do I / dare disturb the universe?” opens the poem declaring, “Let us go then, you and I.”
This poet wrote “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” along with critical essays like “Hamlet and His Problems.” Most famously, he wrote the long modernist poem The Waste Land.
This NON-Eliot poem notes how “all perform their tragic play” and “though Hamlet rambles and Lear rages…[tragedy] cannot gro.” It also describes “two Chinamen,” “a symbol of longevity,” and “a serving-man.”
J. Alfred Prufrock
T. S. Eliot
“Lapis Lazuli” [Ed’s note: the poem is by W. B. Yeats.] &lt;Yue&gt;
This character ridicules the Crystal Palace for being an “idle dream.” For 10 points each:
Name this asocietal character who “finds enjoyment in a toothache.” In a Russian novella, he pushes the prostitute Liza away in a section titled “Apropos [“AH-pro-poe”] of the Wet Snow.”
The Underground Man narrates this Russian author’s novella Notes from the Underground. He also wrote Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov.
The Underground Man asserts that this mathematical statement is “sometimes a very charming thing” although not completely rational. Using the principle of doublethink, O’Brien tells Winston Smith that this statement is true.
the Underground Man (accept the unnamed narrator of Notes from the Underground or Letters from the Underworld)
Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky
2 + 2 = 5 (accept equivalents like two and two is five) &lt;Yue&gt;
This character refutes the notion that “saying is inventing,” remarking that “you think you are inventing, you think you are escaping, and all you do is stammer out your lesson.” For 10 points each:
Name this paralyzed Irish writer who beats a “young old man” and is pursued by the private detective Jacques Moran in the first of a trilogy of novels.
In a play, this character possibly has a white beard and beats a boy’s brother who “minds the sheep.” That boy tells Vladimir and Estragon that this character “won’t come this evening but surely tomorrow.”
Both the trilogy consisting of Molloy, Malone Dies, and The Unnamable and the play Waiting for Godot are by this Irish author.
Molloy
Godot (accept Waiting for Godot)
Samuel Beckett &lt;Yue&gt;
Your lit editor is currently planning a trip to London and wants to see a show on the West End. Help him out, for 10 points each:
The longest running musical in West End history is this one, based on a Victor Hugo novel about Jean Valjean and some star-crossed lives during a brief Parisian revolution.
The longest running show overall, however, is the play The Mousetrap, by this British author. This author’s novel And Then There Were None ends with a postscript revealing the identity of the killer.
The theater named after this playwright is currently hosting Matthew Lopez’s The Inheritance. This playwright’s own shows to run in the West End include Private Lives and Blithe Spirit.
Les Miserables
Agatha Christie
Sir Noël (Peirce) Coward &lt;Kuang&gt;
In one story, one of these objects is of “Perfection” because its “size was that of [an] Empire, and which coincided point for point with it.” For 10 points each:
Name this subject of Jorge Luis Borges’ “On Exactitude in Science,” aptly produced by the “Art of Cartography.”
This English poet described doctors as “Cosmographers, and I their map” in “Hymn to God, my God, in My Sickness.” He compares lovers to “stiff twin compasses” in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.”
This American author depicted the Revolutionary-War-era exploration of the two title cartographers as seen through the eyes of Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke in his novel Mason &amp; Dixon.
a map
John Donne
Thomas Pynchon &lt;Yue&gt;
Paul D is shocked in this novel to find that Sethe killed her oldest child to protect her from slavery. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that follows Sethe, Denver, and the title character as they escape from the Sweet Home plantation.
This author of Beloved focused on the African-American community of Bottom in Sula and wrote of Pecola’s desire for the title object in The Bluest Eye.
In this other Morrison novel, Pilate and First Corinthians receive their names from a randomly selected spot in the Bible. The protagonist, Milkman, travels to the South to find his ancestral home.
Beloved
Toni Morrison
Song of Solomon &lt;Horton&gt;
In the first scene of the play she appears in, this character tells another that “You always end with a jade’s trick.” For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespeare character that is called “my dear Lady Disdain!” and a “rare parrot-teacher” by a character she later marries despite her comparing marriage to getting “overmastered with a piece of valiant dust.”
Beatrice and Benedick get married in Much Ado About Nothing, a Shakespeare play in this genre contrasted with tragedies and histories. These plays often feature humorous misunderstandings and end with marriages.
Beatrice tells a disguised Benedick that he is “the Prince’s jester, a very dull fool” while Don Pedro woos Hero in Claudio’s place at one of these events. Romeo first sees Juliet at one of them.
Beatrice
comedies
masked balls (accept masquerades and specific types of balls; accept dances) &lt;Yue&gt;
One of this woman’s Swiss ancestors was the first teacher for the deaf in Zurich. For 10 points each:
Name this American woman, the first deaf-blind person to earn a bachelor of arts degree. She graduated from Radcliffe College, then the sister school of Harvard, in 1904.
Keller’s lifelong teacher and companion was this blind woman. A memorable scene in the film The Miracle Worker depicts this woman teaching the word “water” to Keller.
Keller was an active member of this labor union. In a 1916 interview, Keller claimed that she became a member of this union because she thought the Socialist Party was “sinking into the political bog.”
Helen Keller
Anne Sullivan
Industrial Workers of the World (or IWW; or “Wobblies”) &lt;Suh&gt;
(<strong>NOTE TO MODERATOR:</strong> do NOT announce alternate answerline to second bonus part unless first given) In one poem, the speaker’s face is described as “a featureless, fine… linen” of these people. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnicity that the speaker of another poem “may be a bit of” due to “my weird luck / And my Taroc pack.” That speaker describes “the language obscene / An engine, an engine / Chuffing me off like” one of these people.
That aforementioned poem describes this title man, “in black with a Meinkampf look” who has “a stake in [his] fat black heart.” The speaker declares “you bastard, I’m through” with this man at the end of that poem.
This American poet wrote “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy.” Her friend Anne Sexton infamously called this poet’s suicide a “good career move.”
Jewish people (accept Jews)
Daddy (accept but do NOT reveal Sylvia Plath’s father, prompting on partial answer)
Sylvia Plath &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about animals from Aesop’s fables.
This animal protagonist of an Aesop fable toils all summer to save up food, while the grasshopper sings and frolics around.
In another Aesop fable, one of these animals is woken by a mouse but spares his life. Later, the mouse returns the favor by freeing this animal after it gets caught in a net by gnawing on the ropes.
A rather dark Aesop fable tells of one of these animals choking his sleeping snake friend to death for being crooked and deceitful.
ant
lion
crab &lt;Suh&gt;
In a novel partially titled for this color, a narrator is owned by Master Stork and told, “you’re nothing but a counterfeit.” For 10 points each:
Give this color. An Orhan Pamuk novel titled My Name is [this color] is initially narrated by the murdered calligrapher Elegant Effendi, and features a section in which this color acts as a narrator.
Orhan Pamuk is a Nobel-Prize-winning author from this country. He set his novel Snow in this country’s city of Kars, and he set My Name is Red in Istanbul, during the Ottoman Empire.
In Snow, Kadife leads a group of girls named for these items. Kadife plans a symbolic action involving one of these items during a production of The Spanish Tragedy.
red (accept My Name is Red)
Republic of Turkey
head-scarf (accept hijab; do NOT accept or prompt on just “scarf”) &lt;Yue&gt;
One of this author’s poems describes the title object as “made of a heart and cemented with tears / Whose parts are as thy hand did frame.” For 10 points each:
Name this metaphysical English poet of “The Altar,” which notably takes the shape of an actual altar. This poet’s mother Magdalen patronized authors such as John Donne, who dedicated his collection Holy Sonnets to her.
Herbert also arranged a poem titled for the “wings” of this holiday to resemble two pairs of wings. A Yeats [“yates”] poem named after this day in “1916” repeatedly warns that “a terrible beauty is born.”
Similar to the visual tactics of Herbert’s concrete poetry is this poetic form in which the first letter of every line in the poem spells out a word or phrase.
George Herbert
Easter (accept “Easter Wings” and “Easter Rising, 1916”)
acrostic &lt;R. Li&gt;
Evidence for these animals is given by an entry in the “dead cats column,” and one of these animals “maybe...felt the need for a bit of relaxation after all these years of office life.” For 10 points each:
Name these animals which one character “doesn’t have the vocation” for, ending a play by asserting that he’s “not capitulating.”
Rhinoceros is a play by this absurdist Romanian playwright who depicted the Smiths and the Martins in The Bald Soprano.
Although Romanian, Ionesco wrote Rhinoceros in this European language, the language of fellow absurdist Jean Genet as well as the language of the existentialist Jean-Paul Sartre’s No Exit.
rhinoceroses
Eugène Ionesco
French &lt;Yue&gt;
This character opens the musical in which he appears by describing “the challenge: bring[ing] order to the whole, through design, composition, tension, balance, light and harmony.” For 10 points each:
Name this painter who fathers a child with his mistress Dot in a 1984 musical. His great-grandson unveils the light machine “Chromolume #7” in the second act.
This man wrote the music and lyrics for Sunday in the Park with George, but is better known for his musicals Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and Into the Woods.
In a 1990 Sondheim musical, participants in these events are handed guns by a Proprietor singing “Everybody’s Got the Right.” John Wilkes Booth shouts “Sic semper tyrannis!” after committing one of these events.
George Seurat (prompt on Sunday in the Park with George)
Stephen Sondheim
(attempted) assassinations of Presidents of the United States (accept similar descriptions, prompt on partial answer) &lt;Yue&gt;
Sometimes, an author’s greatest character is the author themself. For 10 points each, give these non-memoirists by their attempts at memoir writing:
This author of On Writing created the character Jack Torrance in a book followed by the sequel Doctor Sleep. Miss Desjardin discovers another of his characters after she gets her first period in a school bathroom.
“Miss Stein Instructs” and “Shakespeare and Company” are chapters in this author’s memoir A Moveable Feast. His more famous works include The Old Man and the Sea and A Farewell to Arms.
This poet, essayist, and activist wrote the memoirs The Cancer Journals and Zami: A New Spelling of My Name. She included “The Master’s Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master’s House” in Sister Outsider.
Stephen King
Ernest Hemingway
Audre Lorde (accept Audrey Geraldine Lorde) &lt;Levine&gt;
A character with this condition is teased at school and prays to God to cure him of his condition, since “if you have faith you can remove mountains.” For 10 points each:
Name this physical condition that afflicts a character who attends a German boarding school, a French art school, and later an English medical school. He falls in love with Norah Nesbit and the waitress Mildred.
In another novel, a Yonville doctor with this surname fails to treat Hippolyte’s clubfoot at the urging of the pharmacist Homais. Emma is the title “Madame” of this surname in a Gustave Flaubert novel.
Kashiwagi seduces women through pity by making them “fall in love with [his] clubfeet” in this author’s The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. He also wrote the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
clubfoot [Writer’s note: The character is Philip Carey in Maugham’s Of Human Bondage.]
Bovary (accept Dr. Charles Bovary; or Emma Bovary; or Madame Bovary)
Yukio Mishima &lt;Yue&gt;
The architect Mulciber designed this place. For 10 points each:
Name this capital of Hell that was supposedly built in about an hour at the suggestion of Mammon after the fall of Lucifer and his followers.
Pandæmonium is depicted in this fictional John Milton epic about “man’s first disobedience.”
This seraph denounces Lucifer and his followers for their rebellion. In his annotations on Paradise Lost, Isaac Asimov theorized that this angelic character was in fact a representation of Milton himself.
Pandæmonium (prompt on Hell until mention)
Paradise Lost
Abdiel &lt;Suh&gt;
The protagonist of this novel remembers a “night she was like the little tottering… child who of a sudden realizes its powers” before sensing “the hum of bees and the musky odor of pinks.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Edna Pontellier becomes friends with Mademoiselle Reisz and drowns herself after a relationship with Robert Lebrun.
The author of The Awakening, Kate Chopin, was from this Southern state. Her story “At the ‘Cadian Ball” concerns the Cajun population in this state, and The Awakening is partially set in its city of New Orleans.
Edna’s kiss with this man is “a flaming torch that kindled desire” which caused her to feel “as if a mist had been lifted from her eyes.” Despite his “dreadful reputation,” Edna has an affair with him in Robert’s absence.
The Awakening
Louisiana
Alcée Arobin (accept either underlined part) &lt;Yue&gt;
Answer some questions about authors naming their characters after other authors. For 10 points each:
First, name this country, the setting of a Carlos Fuentes novel in which Ambrose Bierce is depicted as the title Old Gringo. Bierce notably is told to shoot a bullet through a silver coin of this country’s currency, the peso.
This popular Japanese author wrote of fifteen-year-old Kafka Tamura, who has an alter ego named Crow, and Mr. Nakata, who can talk to cats, in Kafka on the Shore. He wrote Norwegian Wood and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
This Bengali-American is named after an author because his father had indicated his location in a train accident by dropping a page of that author’s works. The Namesake ends with this character picking up his namesake’s works.
Mexico
Haruki Murakami
Gogol Ganguli (prompt on Nikhil or Ganguli) &lt;Yue&gt;
This character knows the “refined monster” that is watery-eyed <em>ennui</em> according to one poem. For 10 points each:
Name this addressee of a poem which opens by describing “folly, error, sin, and avarice” and asserts that “Trismegist / Incessantly lulls our enchanted minds” and “the Devil holds the strings which move us.”
“To the Reader” is the preface to this Symbolist poetry collection which is divided into sections like “Wine,” “Revolt,” and “Spleen and Ideal.”
Charles Baudelaire’s The Flowers of Evil addresses one of these creatures as “you who, like the stab of a knife, / Entered my plaintive heart.” Bram Stoker’s character Dracula is a famous example of one of these creatures.
the hypocrite reader (accept lecteur; accept “To the Reader” or “Au Lecteur”)
The Flowers of Evil (accept Les Fleurs du Mal)
vampires (accept “The Vampire”) &lt;Yue&gt;
This man’s will seems to exclude Thomas Quiney, a son-in-law by way of his second daughter with Anne Hathaway. For 10 points each:
Name this British playwright, whose works appeared in quarto before being collected in the First and Second Folios. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon and wrote for the Lord Chamberlain’s Men at the Globe Theatre.
This author described the lack of opportunities that Shakespeare’s fictional sister, who shares her name with his second daughter Judith, had in her essay describing the need for a space for women writers, A Room of One’s Own.
In one novel’s chapter “Scylla and Charybdis,” this character “proves by algebra that Hamlet’s grandson is Shakespeare’s grandfather” and proposes that Shakespeare’s wife cheated on him with his brothers before Buck Mulligan interrupts him.
William Shakespeare
Virginia Woolf
Stephen Dedalus &lt;Yue&gt;
The poem in which this character appears notes that “there is a pleasure in the pathless woods” and that “I love not Man the less, but Nature more.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who remarks, “look on this spot - a nation’s sepulchre! / Abode of gods, whose shrines no longer burn” when he travels to Greece from Spain in the second of four cantos of Spenserian stanzas.
This poem describes “the smiles that win, the tints that glow, / but tell of days in goodness spent” of the title character. This poem notes that “all that’s best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes.”
This poet wrote “She Walks in Beauty” and longer poems like “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage” and “Don Juan” whose main characters are examples of his namesake jaded romantic “heroes.”
Childe Harold (accept “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage”)
“She Walks in Beauty”
Lord Byron (accept George Gordon) &lt;Yue&gt;
A character with this profession uses butter as lotion, noting that “we have ceremonies of our own, private ones.” For 10 points each:
Name these people who attend “the ceremony” with Commanders and are trained by “Aunts” at the Red Center. They are contrasted with Marthas and Econowives.
The handmaid Offred narrates her life in Gilead in The Handmaid’s Tale, a dystopian novel by this Canadian author of Alias Grace and Oryx and Crake.
On a walk back from church, Offred observes several men hanged at this place. The victims wear white doctor coats, indicating they’re being punished for practicing abortion.
handmaids
Margaret Atwood
the Wall &lt;Yue&gt;
An author from this country wrote the trilogy <em>Kristin Lavransdatter</em>, a series of books about a woman living here in the Middle Ages. For 10 points each:
Give this country. Another novelist from this country wrote a novel in which the protagonist gets paid for writing an article for the paper, but is unable to stomach the title Hunger.
This German author wrote a similar story called “A Hunger Artist” about a professional faster. He also wrote about Gregor Samsa waking up as a “monstrous vermin” in The Metamorphosis.
In this other Kafka story, a man sets up The Machine to inscribe the words “Be Just” on him, but is instead brutally executed when The Machine malfunctions.
Norway
Franz Kafka
“In the Penal Colony” (or “In der Strafkolonie”) &lt;Yue&gt;
The title character in one of this author’s poems “has no pulse nor will” despite the ship being “anchor’d safe and sound.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of Leaves of Grass, who eulogized Abraham Lincoln in his poem “O Captain! My Captain!”
In this other Whitman poem about Lincoln’s death, a “gray-brown bird...sang the carol of death” and the narrator gives a sprig of the title flower to a passing coffin when “the great star early droop’d in the western sky.”
In a non-Whitman poem, this general is told to “proceed...with virtue on thy side, / thy ev’ry action let the Goddess guide.” That poem begins by invoking a “Celestial choir” and describes the battles for “Columbia.”
Walt Whitman
“When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d”
George Washington [Writer’s note: That poem is Phillis Wheatley’s “His Excellency General Washington.”] &lt;Yue&gt;
One of these characters was birthed from his mother’s left ear and required over 10,000 cows for his prodigious consumption of milk. For 10 points each:
Name these two characters. In another book, one of these characters is mistakenly attacked by the sausage-like natives of Wild Island.
This French satirist created Gargantua and Pantagruel in a pentalogy of books that bear his namesake baudy style. This author published the first of those books under the pseudonym “Alcofribas Nasier,” an anagram of his name.
Just before dying in this city, Rabelais supposedly said he was going “to seek a Great Perhaps.” In Volume 2 of the pentology, Gargantua urinates on a crowd in this capital city of France, causing thousands of drownings.
Gargantua and Pantagruel
François Rabelais
Paris &lt;R. Li&gt;
A character in this play remarks, “I didn’t know that Shakespeare had a sister!” after entering accompanied by the legend, “Terror! The Opening of a Door!” For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which “gentleman caller” Jim O’Connor meets Tom’s sister Laura and later reveals that he is engaged.
The Glass Menagerie is a play by this author, who wrote of Blanche DuBois visiting her sister after the loss of Belle Reve in A Streetcar Named Desire.
In this Tennessee Williams play, a 97-year-old poet dictates his final poem to his granddaughter at the Mexican hotel run by Hannah Jelkes, where Reverend Larry Shannon has “crack-ups.”
The Glass Menagerie
Thomas Lanier “Tennessee” Williams III
The Night of the Iguana &lt;Yue&gt;
A documentary about this location describes the setting as “an autumn sky indifferent to everything, evok[ing] a night shrill with cries, busy with fleas.” For 10 points each:
Give this concentration camp, the focus of the 1956 documentary Night and Fog, where “Death makes his first pick” among people that were “rounded up in Warsaw, deported from Lodz, from Prague, Brussels or Athens.”
Night and Fog is a documentary from this country. Chris Marker and Agnès Varda were notable documentarians from its landmark 1950s New Wave.
This 2012 Joshua Oppenheimer documentary had Anwar Congo and other perpetrators of the mid-1960s Indonesian killings attempt to cinematically recreate their experiences, ending with Anwar finally throwing up in disgust.
Auschwitz-Birkenau
France (or French Republic)
The Act of Killing &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points, answer these questions about the life and death of poet Philip Larkin:
A Larkin poem titled for this Latin phrase describes the time “between the end of the "Chatterley" ban /  And the Beatles' first LP.” A John Dryden poem also has this title that means “year of miracles.”
In 1984, Larkin was offered the position of British Poet Laureate, but declined. As of November 2018, this person holds the position and is the first woman and openly gay person to do so.
Larkin’s reputation was damaged by the posthumous publication of several documents of this sort revealing his racism. It’s not diaries, but epistolary literature refers to literature in this form.
annus mirabilis
Dame Carol Ann Duffy
letters &lt;R. Li&gt;
It’s not Arabic, but the ghazal <strong>["guh-zzle"]</strong> was a popular poetic form in this language. For 10 points each:
Give this language used by Omar Khayyam. Its modern day form is spoken in Iran.
Omar Khayyam wrote this selection of poems that famously quotes, “a Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread, and Thou.” Technically, this collection’s title just refers to any group of quatrains.
This other Persian poet derived his name from having memorized the Quran. His many romantic ghazals are exemplified by a poem in which he says, “I lean as close to your body with my words / As I can.”
Persian (or Farsi)
Rubaiyat
Hafez &lt;Kuang&gt;
This author concludes one work by asserting that he can “no longer… cross through the pride of flags and flames / Nor swim under the terrible eyes of prison ships.” For 10 points each:
Name this French Symbolist poet whose tempestuous relationship with Paul Verlaine tarnished his literary standing among the Parisian elite.
The aforementioned poem by Rimbaud is titled for a “boat” afflicted by this condition. A well-known quote from Omar Khayyam declares that “it is the season for wine, roses, and… friends” in this state of being.
In another poem, Rimbaud described this character as “floating, like a great lilly” down a “long black river.” The protagonist of the work that this character originally appears in angrily commands her to “get… to a nunnery.”
Arthur Rimbaud
drunken (accept synonyms like inebriated)
Ophelia &lt;R. Li&gt;
In a story named for this object, a character constantly hears a house whisper that “there must be more money!” For 10 points each:
Name this object, on which Paul “madly surg[es]” screaming “Malabar!” causing his family to win eighty-thousand pounds betting on the Derby in a short story.
“The Rocking-Horse Winner” is by this British author who depicted the title character’s affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors in Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
A D.H. Lawrence novel depicting the life of Paul Morel is titled for [these people] and Lovers. In the novel, Paul has a complicated relationship with his mother Gertrude and falls in love with Miriam and Clara Dawes.
a rocking-horse (prompt on horse; accept “The Rocking-Horse Winner”)
D. H. Lawrence
sons &lt;Yue&gt;
This author invoked “the Vale, the three lone weirs,” and “the youthful Thames” in a poem lamenting the death of his friend Arthur Hugh Clough. For 10 points each:
Name this poet of the aforementioned “Thyrsis.” Another poem by him urges the reader to “listen!… hear the grating roar / Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling.”
In addition to writing “Dover Beach,” Arnold gave a collection of lectures “on translating” this author. This blind poet of the Iliad and the Odyssey may actually be several people.
Arnold’s poem about a “scholar” one of these people opens by imploring “Go, for they call you, shepherd, from the hill.” In a Victor Hugo novel, a girl of this ethnicity attracts the lust of Claude Frollo.
Matthew Arnold
Homer
Roma (accept gypsy or “The Scholar-Gipsy”) &lt;R. Li&gt;
A character claims he can “smell the machinery” upon seeing this character “blow up bigger and bigger, big as a tractor.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, who “keeps the fog machine running” according to the hallucinations of one of her wards. She threatens to call Billy Bibbit’s mother, resulting in his suicide.
Nurse Ratched runs one of these places in Ken Kesey’s One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest. Esther Greenwood enters one of these places after her mental state deteriorates in The Bell Jar.
Ken Kesey’s own experiences tripping on acid with the Merry Pranksters are chronicled in this New Journalist’s book The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. He is better known for his first novel, The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Nurse Ratched (accept Big Nurse)
mental institutions (accept asylums, psychiatric institutions, mental hospitals, and other synonyms)
Tom Wolfe (accept Thomas Kennerly Wolfe; do NOT accept or prompt on “Thomas Wolfe,” “Thomas Clayton Wolfe,” or “Thomas C. Wolfe”) &lt;Yue&gt;
In a Li Bai <strong>["lee bye"]</strong> poem, this object is asked to drink with the narrator, and it and the narrator’s shadow are made into the narrator’s friends. For 10 points each:
Name this object which the speaker of another Li Bai poem raises his head to see before he “lower[s] his head and misses his home.”
Li Bai’s poems “Drinking Alone by Moonlight” and “Quiet Night Thoughts” are from this country. Li Bai himself lived during its Tang Dynasty.
This non-Chinese poet described the “Moon [coming] to the forge / in her petticoat of nard” in the first of his Gypsy Ballads. In a play by this man, the Moon takes the guise of a woodcutter to announce a bloody omen.
the moon
China
Federico Garcia Lorca [Ed’s note: the unnamed play is Blood Wedding.] &lt;Yue&gt;
One of this man’s plays uses an Author and his play as allegories for God and the world. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th century author of prominent “sacramental plays” such as The Great Theater of the World. In another of his plays, King Basilio imprisons his son in response to a prophecy.
Along with his contemporary Lope de Vega, Calderon de la Barca was instrumental in developing the literature of this European country’s “Golden Age” from its capital of Madrid.
In another Calderon play, Pedro Crespo ascends to this eponymous profession in the town of Zalamea and has his daughter’s rapist hanged. Casterbridge resident Michael Henchard has this profession in a Thomas Hardy novel.
Pedro Calderon de la Barca [the unnamed play is Life is a Dream]
Spain
a mayor (accept The Mayor of Zalamea or The Mayor of Casterbridge) &lt;R. Li&gt;
The short stories “Lies” and “As a Woman Grows Older” examine this character’s relationship with her son and daughter. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional woman, a lecturer at Appleton College and the author of The House on Eccles Street. Beside her eponymous novel, she also appears in the pro-vegetarian book The Lives of Animals.
Elizabeth Costello is a creation slash alter-ego of this Nobel winning novelist, whose novels Waiting for the Barbarians and Life and Times of Michael K examine the presence of individuals in desolate landscapes.
Coetzee is a novelist originally born in this country. Many of this country’s authors, like Athol Fugard and Alan Paton, grapple with its legacy of apartheid.
Elizabeth Costello (accept either or both underlined parts)
J. M. Coetzee
South Africa (accept Republic of South Africa or RSA) &lt;R. Li/Kuang&gt;
(<strong>NOTE TO MODERATOR:</strong> “proem” is NOT a typo. Pronounce as <strong>[“PRO-um”]</strong>) This poet wrote that “the game enforces smirks” in a poem that claims that “our obsequies are, in a way, no enterprise.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Chaplinesque” who addressed the title object of one of his “proems” as “vaulting the sea, the prairies’ dreaming sod” before saying that it “lend[s] a myth to God.”
That “proem” was addressed to a bridge in this city, the namesake of a school of poets that included Frank O’Hara, Kenneth Koch, and John Ashbery. This city was the setting of Whitman’s “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry.”
In this other poem, some of “the best minds of [the poet’s] generation...chained themselves to subways for the endless ride from Battery to holy Bronx on benzedrine.” This poem opens describing those minds as “destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked.”
Hart Crane
New York City (or NYC)
Howl &lt;Yue&gt;
A novel by this author ends with the revelation that the eponymous seafarer “didn’t even have time to kick off his seaboots” before drowning. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the aforementioned Pincher Martin, as well as a trilogy about British aristocrat Edmund Talbot’s journey to Australia.
In this Golding novel, Ralph and Jack wrestle for control of the island they are marooned on as their peers gradually regress into savagery. The title of this novel is derived from a nickname for the demon Beelzebub.
This character hears messages from the title Lord of the Flies, a pig’s head on a stick. He discovers that “the Beast” is a dead parachutist before being killed by the other boys.
William Golding
The Lord of the Flies
Simon &lt;R. Li/Yue&gt;
In a story from this collection, a policeman describes his dream of buried treasure to the protagonist, who realizes the location is his own house. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of Middle Eastern stories narrated by Scheherazade to her husband King Shahyar to stop him from executing her. Sir Richard Burton created a notable translation of this collection.
Arabian Nights includes a description of this character’s seven voyages. On his fifth voyage, this character travels to the City of the Apes, whose residents are terrorized by man-eating simians every night.
Another story in Arabian Nights describes a man who murdered his wife after seeing a slave with one of these title objects. In a Robert Frost poem titled after one of these objects, the speaker recounts how he “held against the world of hoary grass.”
Arabian Nights (accept One Thousand and One Nights, One Thousand and One Arabian Nights, or Arabian Nights’ Entertainment)
Sinbad the Sailor
apples &lt;R. Li&gt;
Scottish surgeon Joseph Bell is frequently cited as a real-life inspiration for this character. For 10 points each:
Name this detective who lives at 221B Baker Street and who, despite popular belief, never actually says the phrase “Elementary, my dear Watson!”
In “The Adventure of the Six Napoleons,” Holmes deduces that an Italian worker named Beppo hid one of these objects in the title plaster busts. A goose belonging to Henry Baker is found to contain one of these objects in another Holmes story titled for a “blue” one of them.
In this author’s The Moonstone, Colonel Herncastle wills the title Indian diamond to his niece Rachel, but it is stolen on the night of her birthday. That work by this author is widely regarded as the first detective novel.
Sherlock Holmes (accept either)
gemstones (accept obvious equivalents; prompt on the Blue Carbuncle with “What kind of object is that?”; prompt on pearl or diamond)
Wilkie Collins &lt;R. Li&gt;
This author compared “faces… in the crowd” to “petals on a wet, black bough” in a poem he described as an “equation.” For 10 points each:
Name this Imagist author of the fourteen-word poem “In a Station of the Metro” as well as Hugh Selwyn Mauberley and his unfinished poem The Cantos.
Pound wrote “In a Station of the Metro” during his expatriate years in Paris, when he famously hung out with this author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.
Pound’s Hugh Selwyn Mauberley opens by describing the title character’s yearning “to resuscitate the dead art” of this activity. In an elegy for W. B. Yeats [“yates”], Auden claims that this activity “makes nothing happen.”
Ezra Pound
Ernest Hemingway
poetry &lt;R. Li&gt;
This character wonders if Bill Oliver thinks he stole a carton of basketballs. For 10 points each:
Name this former high school football star who flunks senior year math after witnessing his father’s affair. His brother is Happy, and his mother is Linda.
After experiencing delusions accompanied by flute music playing in the background, Biff’s father Willy commits suicide at the end of this 1949 Arthur Miller play.
During his affair with The Woman, Willy gave her some of these articles of clothing as gifts. Willy also asks his wife Linda to stop mending some of these objects.
Biff Loman (prompt on Loman)
Death of a Salesman
nylon stockings (or nylons; prompt on socks) &lt;Suh&gt;
A short story by this author is titled for a fake coin that Joe snatches from ice cream parlor owner Otis D. Slemmons after he sleeps with Joe’s wife Missie May. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Gilded Six-Bits,” as well as a collection of African-American folk tales collected from New Orleans and her hometown of Eatonville, Florida.
A blossoming pear tree serves as a recurring motif in this Hurston novel whose protagonist Janie Crawford marries men such as Logan Killicks and Jody Starks.
Crawford is forced to shoot her third husband Tea Cake in self-defense after he contracts this disease. A character with this disease terrorizes Donna and Tad Trenton in a Stephen King novel.
Zora Neale Hurston
Their Eyes Were Watching God
rabies &lt;R. Li&gt;
The narrator of this poem “choose[s] / Never to stoop” and compares his “favour at [the title character’s] breast” to “the dropping of the daylight in the West.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, where Frà Pandolf perhaps notes that “Paint / Must never hope to reproduce the faint / Half-flush that dies along [the title character’s] throat.”
“My Last Duchess” is a dramatic monologue by this British poet of “Rabbi Ben Ezra.” This man’s wife, Elizabeth Barrett, wrote Sonnets from the Portuguese.
This Browning character ends the poem in which he appears with the exclamation, “Zooks!” He describes “simple beauty” as “the best thing God invents” and wonders whether one should “paint” things “just as they are.”
“My Last Duchess”
Robert Browning (prompt on just Browning)
Fra Lippo Lippi (accept Filippo Lippi; prompt on partial answer) &lt;Yue&gt;
This object is first discovered in a black satin box by a character whose heart “beat fast with an immoderate desire.” For 10 points each:
Describe this object that perhaps causes the Minister of Education to pay attention to a character as she dances until four in the morning in a victory “so complete and sweet to the heart of a woman” at a ball.
After losing the title necklace, Madame Loisel works for ten years to purchase a replacement in a story by this French short story author.
The title prostitute, Elisabeth Rousset, sleeps with a Prussian officer at the urging of her companions after their carriage is stopped in this Maupassant short story.
the Necklace (accept Madame Forestier’s or Madame Loisel’s necklace)
Guy de Maupassant
“Boule de Suif” (accept “Ball of Fat”) &lt;Yue&gt;
This character’s bathroom mirror has a Sappho quote on it, and he is the author of the letter “Hapworth 16, 1924.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who is discussed in another letter to his brother Zachary from his other brother Buddy, who meets a loud Matron of Honor at this man’s wedding to Muriel Fedder.
This author wrote about the Glass family in Franny and Zooey and Nine Stories but is better known for following Pencey Prep student Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Seymour Glass describes these fantastical creatures who eat so much that they cannot get out of holes before he commits suicide during a Florida honeymoon in a Salinger short story titled for a “perfect day” for them.
Seymour Glass (prompt on Glass)
Jerome David Salinger
bananafish &lt;Yue&gt;
Old books had some very unhealthy beauty standards. For 10 points each:
This Hans Christian Andersen story relates how the title animal is abused and rejected by his compatriots for his lack of beauty, only to happily realize he’s actually an elegant swan.
In a typical example of the loathly lady trope, this knight honors his commitment to marry an apparently ugly hag, only for her to transform into the beautiful Lady Ragnell. In another poem, this knight meets a “Green Knight” who plays several tricks on him.
In this epic, Maghan the Handsome weds a hunchbacked woman only because of a prophecy that she’ll birth a mighty king. That king in this epic requires an iron crutch as a child, but grows up to win the Battle of Kirina.
“The Ugly Duckling”
Sir Gawain
Epic of Sundiata &lt;Kuang&gt;
This character says that “human beings can be awful cruel to one another.” For 10 points each:
Name this Mark Twain character whose adventures include traveling down the Mississippi River to rescue his friend Jim.
Huckleberry Finn encounters this con man who claims to be the son of Louis XVI and the heir to the French throne. This character is accompanied by a younger con man who claims to be the Duke of Bridgewater.
During his adventures, Huck encounters these two families who hate each other so much that they bring their guns to church while listening to a sermon about brotherly love. Name either of those two families.
Huckleberry Finn (accept either underlined portion)
the Dauphin
Grangerfords or Shepherdsons (accept either underlined portion) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the English nonfiction author James Boswell.
Boswell is perhaps best known for writing one of these works about Samuel Johnson, which is commonly considered to be the greatest work of this genre written in the English language.
Boswell traveled to this island to meet its independence fighter Pasquale Paoli and wrote an Account of [this island]. In 1769, Napoléon Bonaparte was born on this then French-controlled island.
Boswell’s trip to Corsica was part of his journey across Europe, which was a common rite of passage for young members of the upper class during the 17th and 18th centuries known by this two-word phrase.
biography (or life; accept Life of Samuel Johnson)
Corsica
Grand Tour (prompt on partial answer) &lt;Suh&gt;
This author’s namesake “stanza” consists of eight lines of iambic pentameter followed by one ‘alexandrine’ in iambic hexameter. For 10 points each:
Name this English author who paid tribute to his wife Elizabeth Boyle through his sonnet cycle Amoretti. In an epic poem by this author, the villainous wizard Archimago dupes the Redcrosse Knight into believing that his lady Una has been unfaithful.
Spenser’s aforementioned epic, The Faerie Queene, allegorizes the long reign of this English monarch. Other writers during this queen’s reign included William Shakespeare.
Another work by Spenser contains 12 eclogues, each titled for a different month, and is named for a member of this profession’s “calendar.” Christopher Marlowe penned a poem titled for the love of a “passionate” one of these people.
Edmund Spenser
Queen Elizabeth I (prompt on Elizabeth)
shepherd &lt;R. Li&gt;
A character with this surname ends a play by noting that “the strongest man in the world is the man who stands alone.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname of a doctor that discovers that his town’s public baths are polluted in the play An Enemy of the People. It is also the surname of the doctor’s brother, the mayor of that town.
In another play by the same author, this character is blackmailed by Judge Brack after burning Eilert Lovborg’s manuscript, and she commits suicide at the end of that play.
An Enemy of the People and Hedda Gabler were written by this Norwegian playwright who depicted Nora Helmer walking out on her family in A Doll’s House.
Stockmann (accept Dr. Thomas Stockmann or Peter Stockmann)
Hedda Gabler (accept either or both underlined parts; accept Hedda Tesman; prompt on Tesman alone)
Henrik Ibsen &lt;Yue&gt;
When “roasted whole…[this foodstuff] make[s] a considerable figure at a Lord Mayor’s feast, or any other publick entertainment,” and it “would be a great inducement to marriage.” For 10 points each:
Name this foodstuff, “a burden on their country” which if consumed by Irish residents “would greatly lessen the number of Papists” and allow the poor to “have something valuable of their own” according to a 1729 essay.
This satirist proposed making Irish children “beneficial to the publick” in his essay A Modest Proposal, although he is better known for detailing Lemuel Gulliver’s travels in a namesake satirical novel.
The “pleasures” and “pains” of ingesting this other unusual substance was discussed in an autobiography by Thomas De Quincey, who described the horrific visions the title “just, subtle, and mighty” substance causes in that work.
Irish children (accept babies, infants, and other synonyms)
Jonathan Swift
opium (accept laudanum) &lt;Yue&gt;
One of the writers associated with this movement, Christoph Martin Wieland, wrote the first Bildungsroman. For 10 points each:
Identify this late 18th and early 19th century movement named for a city. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller were members of this movement which focused on Gehalt, Gestalt, and Stoff.
Schiller and Goethe moved to Weimar Classicism from this other German literary movement named for a Friedrich Maximilian Klinger play. The English translation of this movement’s name is meteorological.
Weimar Classicism was heavily influenced by the German brand of this artistic movement, which, despite its name, focused not on love but on emotion and individualism.
Weimar Classicism [or Weimarer Klassik; accept word forms; prompt on partial]
Sturm und Drang [prompt on Storm and Stress]
German Romanticism [accept word forms] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
Elspeth Huxley set <em>The Flame Trees of Thika</em> in this country. For 10 points each:
Identify this modern day country in which Karen Blixen, who wrote under the pen name Isak Dinesen, set Out of Africa at a coffee plantation. Its capital is Nairobi.
The Kenyan writer Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o (“GOO-ghee wa-ti-ON-go”) , who was suggested as a possible recipient of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature, now works in this language. This Bantu language shares its name with the biggest ethnic group in Kenya.
Instead of Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, this man won the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature. This author wrote one dystopian novel about clones used for organ donation, Never Let Me Go, and another about a butler named Stevens.
Republic of Kenya
Gikuyu [accept Kikuyu]
Kazuo Ishiguro &lt;CL&gt;
In one poem, this writer asks, “How can I turn from Africa and live?” For 10 points each:
Name this St. Lucian poet and Nobel Laureate. His works include “A Far Cry from Africa” and Omeros, an epic poem referencing the Iliad.
The Iliad is a work by this legendary Ancient Greek bard also credited for the Odyssey.
Walcott also wrote Henry Dernier, a work in this specific form. Other works in this form include Samuel Beckett’s All That Fall and one by Dylan Thomas which focuses on the residents of Llareggub.
Sir Derek (Alton) Walcott
Homer [accept Homeros]
radio plays [accept equivalents like radio drama or radio theater; accept audio in place of “radio”; prompt on radio or audio; do not accept or prompt on just “plays,” “drama,” or “theater”] &lt;CL&gt;
Mr. Wharton brings his daughters Sarah and Frances to his country estate in upstate New York in one work by this author. For 10 points each:
Identify this author, who also wrote about Harvey Birch in that work, The Spy.
Cooper is best known for this novel set during the French and Indian War, part of the Leatherstocking Tales. In this novel, a group including Chingachgook, the title character, takes Alice and Cora Munro to Fort William Henry.
In The Last of the Mohicans, this character is a foster brother of Chingachgook, with whom he rescues Alice, Cora, Gamut, and Heyward. Also known as Hawk-eye, he is the protagonist of the Leatherstocking Tales series.
James Fenimore Cooper [prompt on Fenimore]
The Last of the Mohicans: A Narrative of 1757 [prompt on subtitle]
Nathaniel “Natty” Bumppo [accept any] &lt;CL&gt;
In this play, Larry Slade declares, “What’s before me is the comforting fact that death is a fine long sleep, and I’m damned tired, and it can’t come too soon for me.” For 10 points each:
Identify this play in which Hickey admits to killing his wife and urges the other patrons of Harry Hope’s saloon to give up their “pipe dreams.” Parritt jumps off a fire escape to his death in this play.
The Iceman Cometh is a work by this American playwright who described the Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
This O’Neill play, in which the title prostitute and daughter of Chris Christopherson marries Mat Burke, is also set in a bar, one owned by Johnny the Priest with a bartender named Larry.
The Iceman Cometh
Eugene (Gladstone) O’Neill
Anna Christie &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about William Congreve.
Congreve was a playwright associated with this 17th century period of literature and history in England. Other writers from this period include John Dryden, Aphra Behn, and William Wycherley.
One of Congreve’s best-remembered lines is often paraphrased as “Hell hath no fury like [one of these people] scorned.” Oscar Wilde wrote a play titled for one of these people of No Importance.
Congreve’s “Hell hath no fury” line is from his play named for a Mourning one of these people. This is the last word in the title of the most famous novel by William Goldman.
the Restoration period [accept the Restoration of the crown/monarchy or Restoration comedy or anything indicating that he was a playwright during the English Restoration; generously accept Comedy renaissance but not “Renaissance comedy”]
a woman [or women; do not accept or prompt on anything else]
bride &lt;CL&gt;
Part of this work discusses the state of Cimmeria, named for an ancient people from Ukraine. For 10 points each:
Name this postmodernist novel in which you are the main character and meet the beautiful Ludmilla at a bookstore.
If on a winter’s night a traveler is a work by this Italian author of Cosmicomics, Six Memos for the Next Millennium, and Invisible Cities, which consists primarily of a conversation between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan.
Calvino’s first novel is set during World War II and titled for a path to a nest of these animals. A poem about one of these animals describes the poet’s soul as “Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throwing, seeking.”
If on a winter’s night a traveler [accept Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore]
Italo Calvino
spiders [accept ragno or ragni; accept The Path to the Nest of Spiders; accept “A Noiseless Patient Spider] &lt;CL&gt;
This author used his own experiences at a military academy to write his first novel, <em>The Time of the Hero</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author behind The Green House and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
One of Vargas Llosa’s novels is about a “conversation” of Santiago Zavala and Ambrosio at a bar named for one of these places. T. S. Eliot wrote about a murder in one of these places, examples of which include Notre-Dame.
In a book-length essay titled The Perpetual Orgy, Vargas Llosa argued that this author wrote the first modern novel and analyzed his aesthetics.
Mario Vargas Llosa [accept Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquis of Vargas Llosa; prompt on partial]
cathedral [or cathedrals; accept Conversation in the Cathedral; accept Murder in the Cathedral; do not accept or prompt on “church” or “churches”]
Gustave Flaubert &lt;CL&gt;
In one scene, this character ominously urges, “I am convinced that you will decide, ‘to take your suffering.’” For 10 points each:
Identify this detective who, along with Sonya, encourages a criminal to confess in an 1866 novel. Without much evidence, he becomes convinced that the main character of that novel has murdered Alyona and Lizaveta Ivanovna.
Porfiry is correct to think this main character of the novel in which he appears killed those two women. This former law student lives in St. Petersburg but is eventually exiled to Siberia.
This Russian writer of The Brothers Karamazov and The Idiot also created Porfiry and Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment.
Porfiry Petrovich [prompt on Petrovich; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal descriptions like the detective in Crime and Punishment]
Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov [accept either; prompt on Romanovich]
Fyodor (Mikhailovich) Dostoyevsky &lt;CL&gt;
One of his novels ends shortly after Angel urges the police to wait a moment before arresting a woman at Stonehenge. For 10 points each:
Identify this British author of Tess of the D’Urbervilles, Far from the Madding Crowd, and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Hardy’s poem “The Convergence of the Twain” reflects on this disastrous event between two objects though “Alien they seemed to be; / No mortal eye could see / The intimate welding of their later history.”
This sonnet by Hardy hopes “some vengeful god would call to me” and say “‘thy sorrow is my ecstasy’” and “‘thy love’s loss is my hate’s profiting!’”
Thomas Hardy
the sinking of the R.M.S. Titanic [accept anything describing a shipwreck of the Titanic]
“Hap” &lt;CL&gt;
The first stanza of this poem laments, “The meteor of the ocean air / Shall sweep the clouds no more.” For 10 points each:
Identify this poem which helped save the American ship to which its title refers from being decommissioned. This poem opens with the line, “Aye, tear her tattered ensign down!”
“Old Ironsides” was written by a poet with this last name who also wrote “The Chambered Nautilus.” That poet’s son shares this last name and served as a Supreme Court Justice.
Another Holmes poem is titled for a woman with this first name, his great-grandmother. The speaker of a poem addressed to another woman with this first name proclaims, “Once again / Do I behold these steep and lofty cliffs.”
“Old Ironsides”
Holmes [accept Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. or Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.]
Dorothy [accept “Dorothy Q”; accept Dorothy Mae Ann Wordsworth] &lt;CL&gt;
This author described a young girl’s disappearance in <em>Claire of the Sea Light</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this contemporary Caribbean American author of Breath, Eyes, Memory and the short story collection Krik? Krak! which features settings including Ville Rose and New York City.
Edwidge Danticat is originally from this Caribbean nation. Her novel The Farming of Bones takes place in this country’s neighbor, the Dominican Republic.
The narrator and protagonist of Danticat’s novel Breath, Eyes, Memory has this first name. A Holocaust survivor with this first name is the title character of a William Styron novel.
Edwidge Danticat
Republic of Haiti [accept République d'Haïti; accept Repiblik Ayiti]
Sophie [accept Sophie Caco; accept Sophie Zawistowska] &lt;CL&gt;
This novel primarily follows the journey of Cora and Caesar. For 10 points each:
Identify this 2016 novel which reimagines the title system of safe houses, which helped many people escape slavery and included such figures as Harriet Tubman, as an actual subway.
The Underground Railroad was written by this American author who also wrote The Intuitionist.
In 2002, Whitehead received this prize, often referred to as a “Genius Grant.” Other notable recipients of this prize include Jesmyn Ward and Lin-Manuel Miranda.
The Underground Railroad
Colson Whitehead
MacArthur Fellows Program [accept MacArthur Fellowship; accept MacArthur Genius Award; accept MacArthur Genius Grant] &lt;CL&gt;
This work declares, “The man who renounces himself, comes to himself.” For 10 points each:
Identify this speech given to six students in 1838. It sparked backlash for its perceived atheism, including critiques of the church and the ideas of a universal soul and moral intuition, allowing individual connection to God.
The Divinity School Address emphasizes points brought up by this other work by the same author. In this transcendentalist essay, too few appreciate the title thing, and the author describes himself as a “transparent eyeball.”
“The Divinity School Address” and “Nature” are both by this transcendentalist author of “The American Scholar” and “Self-Reliance,” who was a friend of Henry David Thoreau.
“The (Harvard) Divinity School Address” [accept descriptive answers; prompt on anything just about schools, universities, or Harvard]
“Nature”
Ralph Waldo Emerson &lt;CL&gt;
The speaker of one work by this writer “drown[s] in the drumming ploughland.” For 10 points each:
Name this former British Poet Laureate who wrote the collection The Hawk in the Rain and describes his volatile marriage in Birthday Letters.
Ted Hughes was married to this other poet who ends her poem “Daddy” by declaring, “[Y]ou bastard, I’m through.” This Confessional poet also wrote “The Munich Mannequins” and “Tulips.”
This poem by Plath opens, “I have done it again. / One year in every ten / I manage it.” At its end, this poem warns “Herr God” and “Herr Lucifer,” “Out of the ash / I rise with my red hair / And I eat men like air.”
Ted Hughes [accept Edward James Hughes]
Sylvia Plath
“Lady Lazarus” &lt;CL&gt;
Minor characters in this novel include Miss Doris Kilman and Hugh Whitbread. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the protagonist prepares to host a party, concerned she might have been happier romantically with Peter Walsh or Sally Seton than Richard.
Mrs Dalloway is a novel by this British author of A Room of One’s Own and To the Lighthouse.
This work, originally titled Melymbrosia, was Virginia Woolf’s debut novel. In this work, Rachel Vinrace takes a ship to South America and Clarissa Dalloway is first introduced.
Mrs Dalloway
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf [do not accept or prompt on “Virginia Euwer Wolff”]
The Voyage Out &lt;CL&gt;
This novel contains a scene in which Miss Havisham spontaneously combusts in her decades-old wedding dress and dies. For 10 points each,
Name this novel that ends with its protagonist taking a widow’s hand in the ruins of the Satis House, and stating that he sees “no shadow of another parting from her.”
This author of Great Expectations also wrote works like A Christmas Carol, A Tale of Two Cities, and Oliver Twist.
In Great Expectations, this character serves as a teacher for many of the orphans in Pip’s village. Pip attempts to propose to this character, but finds out that she has gotten married to his ex-brother-in-law Joe Gargery.
Great Expectations
Charles Dickens
Biddy &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about the Oulipo literary movement.
Oulipo was a group which wrote under given constraints and consisted mostly of writers from this country. Writers from this country include Raymond Queneau and the author of “The Necklace.”
One Oulipian constraint, S+7, relies on replacing each noun in a text with the noun found seven entries after it in one of these reference texts. Samuel Johnson compiled one of these texts for the English language.
One of the best known works produced by Oulipo was A Void by Georges Perec, which has this unusual characteristic, almost entirely shared by the Ernest Vincent Wright novel Gadsby.
France [accept the French Republic]
dictionary [accept dictionaries]
it doesn’t have the letter e [accept equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
In this short story, Sibyl Carpenter complains about how one character let Sharon Lipschutz sit next to him on a piano bench. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Seymour Glass tells Sibyl about the title mythical animals while at the beach. This story ends with an abrupt suicide.
“A Perfect Day for Bananafish” is a work by this author, who also wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
In “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” this character, Seymour’s wife, is unconcerned with his bizarre behavior, although this character’s mother believes that Seymour has been discharged from a psychiatric hospital too hastily.
“A Perfect Day for Bananafish”
Jerome David Salinger
Muriel Glass [prompt on Glass] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about contemporary Chinese literature.
Works by the satirical Yan Lianke often confront social issues; for example, Dreams of Deng Village focuses on people who suffer from this disease caused by HIV, also the focus of Angels in America and the musical Rent.
In 2000, the Nobel Prize for Literature went to Gao Xingjian (“GOW SHING-jen”), the author of Soul Mountain and a book titled One Man’s [one of these texts]. Barbara Kingsolver wrote about a “poisonwood” one of these texts.
In 2012, another Chinese writer, Mo Yan, won the Nobel. He is best known for this multivolume novel which follows three generations of a family and is titled for the main crop of Mo’s hometown.
AIDS [accept acquired immune deficiency syndrome]
Bibles [accept One Man’s Bible; accept The Poisonwood Bible; accept Yī gè rén de Shèngjīng]
Red Sorghum: A Novel of China [accept Red Sorghum Clan; accept Red Sorghum Family; accept Hóng Gāoliáng Jiāzú] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about the literary legacy of the Amis family.
Kingsley Amis, a member of the Angry Young Men, wrote a Dossier of critical work about this character, a spy created by Ian Fleming who will take his martini shaken, not stirred.
However, Kingsley Amis is better known for a novel about a “lucky” guy with this name. Joseph Conrad wrote about a “Lord” with this name, and this is the name of a major character in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
Kingsley Amis’s son, Martin Amis, is also an author, and wrote this novel in reverse chronology about a Nazi doctor. It was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.
James Bond [accept 007 or double O seven; prompt on James]
Jim [do not accept or prompt on “James”]
Time’s Arrow &lt;CL&gt;
A poem about this place was inspired by its author remembering the title place when he saw a fountain in a shop window. For 10 points each:
Name this place which titles a poem in which the speaker declares, “I will arise and go now” to the title place to “live alone in the bee-loud glade.” That poem is about the “Lake Isle of” this place.
This poet of “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” also wrote poems like “Sailing to Byzantium” and “The Second Coming.”
This Yeats poem uses ottava rima, and begins “I sought a theme and sought for it in vain,” and ends, “Now that my ladder’s gone / I must lie down where all ladders start / In the foul rag and bone shop of the heart.”
Innisfree [accept “The Lake Isle of Innisfree”]
William Butler Yeats
“The Circus Animals’ Desertion” &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some works by the Ancient Greek comic playwright Aristophanes.
In this perhaps best-known Aristophanes play, Dionysus attempts to bring the playwright Euripides back from the dead with the help of Xanthias. The title amphibians form the chorus with a refrain of “Brekekekèx-koàx-koáx.”
In this play, the title character leads a group of women to refuse to have sex with their husbands until the end of the Peloponnesian War. A group of women take over the Acropolis in this play which also features Lampito.
This play opens with two slaves kneading dough and focuses on Trygaeus, who eventually marries Harvest and gossips with the title character after freeing her from a cave.
The Frogs [accept Batrachoi; accept Ranae]
Lysistrata [accept Lysistrátē; accept Army Disbander]
Peace [accept Eirēnē] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name the most famous works of some Scottish authors.
Robert Louis Stevenson’s best-known work is arguably this novella which follows Gabriel John Utterson as he investigates his kind-hearted friend, who he discovers transforms into an evil man from time to time.
Another Scottish author wrote The Admirable Crichton (“CRY-ton”) but is most famous for writing a “fairy-play” about this character, who is featured alongside many characters from the Darling family.
Yet another Scottish writer, Muriel Spark, wrote a novel titled for The Prime of this character, a teacher at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls in Edinburgh. This character selects a few girls as the crème de la crème.
(The) Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
Peter Pan [prompt on partial; prompt on The Boy Who Wouldn’t Grow Up]
Miss Jean Brodie [accept either] &lt;CL&gt;
The only thing better for your health than poetry is fruit. For 10 points each, name some things about both.
Robert Frost writes, “I cannot rub the strangeness from my sight” in a poem titled “After [picking this fruit].” This fruit comes in varieties like Red Delicious and Gala.
In “This Is Just to Say,” William Carlos Williams confesses to having eaten some examples of this fruit “that were in / the icebox / and which / you were probably / saving / for breakfast.”
Seamus Heaney’s poem about picking this fruit recalls being sent out “with milk cans, pea tins, jam-pots” and laments, “Each year I hoped they’d keep, knew they would not.” This fruit also titles a Yusef Komunyakaa poem.
apples [or “After Apple-Picking”; accept Malus pumila from over-achievers]
plums [accept Prunus domestica or Prunus salicina or Prunus simonii]
blackberries [or blackberry or “Blackberry-Picking”; accept Rubus] &lt;CL&gt;
This character sometimes goes by the pseudonym Henry Flower. For 10 points each:
Name this character who, according to his creator, does not have a romantic encounter with Gerty MacDowell as fireworks explode. In response to one question from this character, another remembers saying, “yes I will Yes.”
In the novel Ulysses, Leopold Bloom finally meets this character visiting Mina Purefoy in a maternity ward. This character is also the protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Ulysses and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man are by this Irish author of Dubliners.
Leopold Bloom [prompt on Bloom]
Stephen Dedalus [accept either]
James Joyce &lt;CL&gt;
In mathematics, this thinker used intersecting conics to find geometric solutions for cubic equations. For 10 points each:
Identify this poet and astronomer whose most famous collection was translated from Arabic into English by Edward FitzGerald and includes the line, “The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ / Moves on.”
Omar Khayyam is best known for this collection of quatrains which contains the aforementioned quote as well as the line, “A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread—and Thou.”
In the most famous version of FitzGerald’s translation, that quatrain in the Rubaiyat opens by describing one of these specific objects “underneath the Bough.”
Omar Khayyam
the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
a Book of Verses &lt;CL&gt;
Though he’s celebrated around the world, some cities were more important to Shakespeare than others. For 10 points each:
Most of Shakespeare’s histories are set in this city, which is also the location of the Globe Theatre, where his plays were typically performed.
This city serves as the setting for Romeo and Juliet, prologue to which opens, “Two households, both alike in dignity, / In fair [this city], where we lay our scene.”
In The Taming of the Shrew, Petruchio travels from Verona to this other Italian city which serves as the main setting of the play. Baptista Minola lives in this city with his daughters Bianca and Kate.
London [prompt on Southwark]
Verona
Padua [accept Padova] &lt;CL&gt;
This character was switched at birth with the title character of the work she appears in, leading to Sister Gudule accusing her of eating her child. For 10 points,
Name this character, whose act includes a pet using wooden tiles to spell the name Phoebus, the Captain of the King’s Archers who this character becomes obsessed with.
This other character dies embracing Esmeralda’s corpse and is the adopted son of the Archdeacon Claude Frollo. In one scene, he is elected Pope of Fools.
Quasimodo is the main character in The Hunchback of Notre-Dame, which was written by this French author of Les Misérables.
Esmeralda [accept Agnés]
Quasimodo Sunday [prompt on Sunday]
Victor Marie Hugo &lt;RY&gt;
. This writer was part of the womanism movement, which specifically criticized sexism against black women and racism within the feminist community. For 10 points each,
Name this Hunter College High School alumna, the lesbian poet and activist behind The First Cities and Zami: A New Spelling of My Name. She wrote the essay “The Master’s Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master’s House.”
Lorde wrote a book discussing her struggles with the breast variety of this disease; she died of its liver variety in 1992, perhaps due to exposure to toxins in the factory work she describes in Zami.
The word “womanist” was coined by this author, who once said “Womanist is to feminist as purple is to lavender.” Her most famous novel features its protagonist falling in love with the jazz singer Shug Avery.
Audre Lorde [accept Audrey Lorde]
cancer [accept The Cancer Journals]
Alice (Malsenior) Walker &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about couples named George and Martha.
Perhaps the most famous George and Martha pairing had this last name and included the first President and first First Lady of the United States.
This play, which is split into the acts “Fun and Games,” “Walpurgisnacht,” and “The Exorcism,” features a marriage between a George and a Martha, who prove to be awful party hosts for a young professor and his wife.
In a children’s book series by James Marshall, George and Martha, two of these animals, are best friends. A recurring motif in that series about these animals is split pea soup.
Washington [accept George and Martha Washington]
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
hippopotamuses [accept hippos; begrudgingly accept hippopotami] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things Pablo Neruda did in his poems.
In one poem, Neruda says, “Tonight I can” perform this action, which he also did for his career as an author.
“Tonight I Can Write” is featured in this collection about romance, which Neruda wrote in his teens. One work in this collection declares, “[I]n you everything sank!”
In English, the title of another Neruda poem refers to doing this action. That poem titled for this action opens with the line, “It so happens I am sick of being a man.”
write [accept word forms; accept escribir and conjugations; accept “Tonight I Can Write (The Saddest Lines)” or “Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche”]
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair [accept Veinte poemas de amor y una canción desesperada]
walking [accept word forms; accept “Walking Around”; do not accept or prompt on synonyms] &lt;CL&gt;
Like the novel which precedes it, this novel only has one named character, a dog named Constant. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel, which opens with more than 80% of the populace casting blank ballots in a parliamentary election.
Seeing is a sequel to this novel in which the doctor’s wife is one of the few not afflicted by the title condition. A man is stabbed with scissors in this novel.
Seeing and Blindness are both works by this Portuguese Nobel Laureate who also wrote The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.
Seeing [or Essay on Lucidity; accept Ensaio sobre a Lucidez]
Blindness [or Essay on Blindness; accept Ensaio sobre a cegueira]
José (de Sousa) Saramago &lt;CL&gt;
In a 1971 novel by John Gardner, the name of this place is changed to the word for a male deer. For 10 points each:
Identify this place which a legendary hero defends from Grendel in an epic poem. Hrothgar built this place for him and his armies, and the aforementioned hero returns to this place to give him the hilt of a sword.
Heorot is a locale in this epic poem featuring Grendel, Grendel’s mother, Hrothgar, and the title hero who fights a dragon in this work’s climax.
Beowulf is thought to be the oldest surviving epic poem in this specific language. Other works in this language include The Battle of Maldon and the Nine Herbs Charm.
Heorot [accept Herot; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal descriptions like “the mead hall in Beowulf”; do not accept or prompt on “Hart”]
Beowulf
Old English [do not accept or prompt on “English” or “Middle English” or “Modern English”] &lt;CL&gt;
In one short story, Mark Twain claims that everything changes except people with this profession. For 10 points each:
Name this profession which that story is “about.” One person with this profession uses a basin to shield his hat from the rain, but another character becomes convinced it is the helmet of Mambrino.
This character finds that entire incident hilarious, because he knows the helmet is nothing but a barber’s washbasin. At one point, this donkey-riding squire gets wrapped in a blanket and tossed into the air.
Sancho Panza is the sidekick of the title character of this novel by the Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes, which is sometimes incorrectly cited as the earliest canonical novel ever written.
barber [prompt on hairdresser]
Sancho Panza [accept either]
Don Quixote [accept The Ingenious Nobleman Sir Quixote of la Mancha; accept El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha] &lt;CL&gt;
This character goes to live with another family after a murder by the Mbaino. For 10 points each:
Identify this teenage boy whose adoptive father helps kill him to avoid seeming as weak as Unoka, going against the urging of Ezedu. He is seen as a positive, masculine influence on Nwoye.
Ikemefuna dies at the hands of this adoptive father of his, a wrestler and member of the Umuofia clan. This character is the protagonist of Things Fall Apart.
Things Fall Apart is by this Nigerian author of Civil Peace and No Longer At Ease. He criticizes Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness in An Image of Africa.
Ikemefuna
Okonkwo
Chinua Achebe [accept Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe] &lt;CL&gt;
Lionel Trilling wrote the preface for the United States edition of this book. For 10 points each:
Name this nonfiction account of its author’s experiences in the Spanish Civil War. It includes many musings about different leftist movements and became a symbol of anti-Stalinism opposed by communists for decades.
Homage to Catalonia was a work by this British writer who also described a dystopian future featuring Big Brother, as seen through the eyes of Winston Smith, in 1984.
The idea in 1984 that a person may be required by a government to think an equation equals this number is a motif of brainwashing. Winston is unsure if everyone believing that equation equals this number makes it true.
Homage to Catalonia
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair]
five &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name these planets from <em>Star Trek</em> that share their names with Greco-Roman figures.
Spock’s father hails from this planet, which shares its name with the Roman god of fire.
Close relatives of the Vulcans come from this planet, named after a mythical twin of Remus raised by a she-wolf. The people of this planet are known for piloting warbirds.
In the episode “Who Mourns for Adonais?”, the Enterprise approaches a planet named for this immortal son of Leda, before being grabbed by a giant green hand.
Vulcan [do not accept or prompt on “Hephaestus”]
Romulus [accept Romulans]
Pollux [accept Pollux IV] &lt;AJ/RY&gt;
<em>The Protocol of the Elders of</em> this place is published serially in the publication <em>Black Garterbelt</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this place in the Small Magellanic Cloud home to a zoo with a geodesic dome. Montana Wildhack gives birth in this place.
Billy Pilgrim, who becomes “unstuck in time,” is kidnapped by Tralfamadorians in this Kurt Vonnegut novel.
While a prisoner of war at the title building in Slaughterhouse-Five, Billy Pilgrim survives this event, caused by the Allies during World War II, by hiding in a cellar.
Tralfamadore [or Tralfamadorian zoo or Tralfamadorian planet]
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death [prompt on subtitle]
firebombing of Dresden [accept equivalents; prompt on partial; prompt on vague answers like attack on Dresden] &lt;CL&gt;
Meow. For 10 points each, name some stuff about cats in literature.
In one novel by this author, a man searches for his family’s missing cat, which finally returns after almost a year. This author of A Wild Sheep Chase also wrote a novel about Toru Watanabe, which is titled for a Beatles song.
This nineteenth and early twentieth-century writer is perhaps best known for his novel featuring Mr. Sneaze and other middle class people during the Meiji period, I Am a Cat, though he also wrote Kokoro and Botchan.
Both Murakami and Soseki are authors from this country, also home to Chikamatsu Monogatari and Yukio Mishima.
Haruki Murakami [prompt on Haruki]
Natsume Sōseki [accept Natsume Kinnosuke; prompt on Natsume]
Japan [accept Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku] &lt;CL&gt;
The last chapter of this work is entitled “The Author Talks to Himself.” For 10 points each:
Identify this science fiction novel in which Captain von Toch discovers the title creatures, who eventually revolt against their human overlords.
War with the Newts was written by this author of The Absolute at Large and The White Disease. He is best known for the play R.U.R.
In R.U.R., Čapek coined a term for this type of machine which can perform given tasks automatically. The title R.U.R. stands for Rossum’s Universal [these things], and three laws for them were developed by Isaac Asimov.
War with the Newts [accept War with the Salamanders; accept Válka s mloky]
Karel Čapek
robots [or roboti] &lt;CL&gt;
William Shakespeare wrote 154 poems in this form. For 10 points each:
Identify this poetic form which contains fourteen lines, usually consisting of iambic pentameter.
The sonnet form named for this poet includes interlocking quatrains, such that the last line of the first quatrain rhymes with the first line of the next. Gloriana features prominently in one work by this poet.
The poetic turn contained in a sonnet is referred to by this Italian term and usually appears at the end of either the eighth or twelfth line.
sonnets
Edmund Spenser [accept Spenserian sonnet]
voltas &lt;CL&gt;
In this novel, Waverly becomes a national chess champion at age nine. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel about four mothers who form the title group, as well as their daughters, including Rose and Lena. At the beginning of this novel, June takes her late mother’s place in it.
The Joy Luck Club is by this contemporary American author of The Kitchen God’s Wife. This author focuses on mothers and daughters, and has faced some criticism for often depicting Chinese culture through stereotypes.
Amy Tan’s most recent novel is titled [one of these places] of Amazement. Psalm 23 refers to one of these places “of the shadow of death.”
The Joy Luck Club
Amy Tan
valleys [accept The Valley of Amazement; accept Death Valley; accept the valley of the shadow of death] &lt;CL&gt;
. This nine-part collection discusses the importance of <em>machismo</em> within the author’s native country. For 10 points each:
Name this collection that includes essays “The Sons of La Malinche” and “The Day of the Dead”.
The Labyrinth of Solitude was written by this Mexican poet of “Sunstone”.
This fifth essay in The Labyrinth of Solitude analyzes the history of Mexico, closely looking at the Mexican Revolution in addition to the two title concepts.
The Labyrinth of Solitude [accept El laberinto de la soledad]
Octavio Paz
“The Conquest and Colonialism” [accept “Conquista y colonia”] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some poets who wrote about the color white.
This Cuban writer of “I Cultivate a White Rose” is perhaps better known for the collection Versos Sencillos (“sen-SEE-yoce”) which includes a poem used in the song “Guantanamera.”
This “belle of Amherst” wrote “Dare you see a soul at the white heat?” and “Safe in their Alabaster Chambers,” as well as “I heard a Fly buzz— when I died” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Like Rudyard Kipling, this poet wrote a piece called “The White Man’s Burden.” In that poem by this author, he “stop[s], wounded by the wandering scent.”
José Martí [accept José Julián Martí Pérez]
Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson
Pablo Neruda [accept Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto; do not accept or prompt on “Jan Neruda”] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about the literary aspect of the New Sincerity cultural movement, sometimes equated with post-postmodernism.
New Sincerity was popularized by this author and essayist who wrote the monumental novel Infinite Jest.
Another author associated with New Sincerity is Jonathan Franzen, who controversially said his novel The Corrections would be read by fewer men if officially recommended by this television personality, actress, and businesswoman.
Yet another writer prominent in New Sincerity, Zadie Smith, is probably best-known for this debut novel about Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones, which explores the modern-day social effects of British imperialism.
David Foster Wallace
Oprah Winfrey [accept either; accept Orpah Gail Winfrey; prompt on Orpah; prompt on O]
White Teeth &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points, name some things about Medieval literature by women.
In the 1370s, Catherine of Siena wrote one of these works “of divine providence,” a conversation between God and a soul. More generally, this term refers to lines exchanged by two characters, in contrast to a monologue.
Many literary Medieval women were nuns, including Bridget of this country. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is by another author from this country, Stieg Larsson.
This Medieval poet and biographer is best known for The Treasure of the City of Ladies and The Book of the City of Ladies. Her The Tale of the Rose was a criticism of the work of Jean de Meun.
dialogue [accept The Dialogue of Divine Providence]
Kingdom of Sweden [accept Konungariket Sverige]
Christine de Pizan [accept Christine de Pisan] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some authors who wrote about houses.
This Spanish playwright and poet included only female characters in his The House of Bernarda Alba. He also wrote about the disastrous end of the Groom in Blood Wedding.
This Trinidadian Nobel Laureate and author of A Bend in the River wrote about Mohun marrying into the Tulsi family in A House for Mr Biswas.
This Mexican-American writer is best-known for a novel alternately referred to as a vignette collection, which focuses on Esperanza Cordero’s childhood in Chicago and is entitled The House on Mango Street.
Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca; prompt on García alone]
Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
Sandra Cisneros &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some types of people from titles in modern Indian literature.
Vikram Seth wrote a novel titled for A Suitable [one of these people]. John Boyne wrote about one of these people with a certain pattern on his sleepwear in a work set during the Holocaust.
Arundhati Roy’s first novel is titled for [one of these people] of Small Things. After rebelling against one of these figures in Paradise Lost, Satan is forced to leave Heaven.
Chandrahas Choudhury wrote a novel about one of these figures named Arzee. The most famous work by Swedish author Pär Lagerkvist (PAAR lo-GER-kreest) is titled for one of these figures.
boys [accept A Suitable Boy or The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas]
gods [accept The God of Small Things]
dwarf [or dwarves; accept Arzee the Dwarf or The Dwarf] &lt;CL&gt;
In this state, Uncle Willie hides from the Ku Klux Klan in a vegetable bin. For 10 points each:
Identify this U.S. state where the protagonist of one work and her brother, Bailey, are sent to live with their grandmother and uncle in the town of Stamps.
Stamps, Arkansas is a major setting in this work by the poet of “On the Pulse of Morning.” This work takes its title from the Paul Laurence Dunbar poem “Sympathy.”
This African American author wrote the autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Arkansas
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
Maya Angelou [accept Marguerite Annie Johnson; prompt on Maya or My or Marguerite] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the literary career of Graham Greene.
Greene poked fun at British intelligence services in his novel set in this country, Our Man in Havana.
This novel by Greene focuses on the moral ruin and eventual death of Major Henry Scobie, a British official working in Africa whose guilt over his affair with Helen and the death of Ali lead him to commit suicide.
Greene sparked legal action by discussing the sex appeal of this child star in a review of the movie Wee Willie Winkie. This actress also appears in The Little Princess and Curly Top, featuring “Animal Crackers in My Soup.”
Republic of Cuba [accept República de Cuba]
The Heart of the Matter
Shirley Temple (Black) &lt;CL&gt;
This pamphlet’s subtitle is “For preventing the Children of Poor People From being a Burthen to Their Parents or Country, and For making them Beneficial to the Public.” For 10 points each:
Name this satirical essay that suggested dealing with overpopulation of poor children in Ireland by eating them.
This author of A Modest Proposal also wrote Gulliver’s Travels.
Another Swift pamphlet, The Conduct of the Allies, pushed Britain to end its involvement in this war, in which British troops fought at Oudenarde and Malplaquet.
A Modest Proposal
Jonathan Swift
War of the Spanish Succession &lt;BL&gt;
. John Ferrier’s revenge quest takes him from Utah to London in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this detective novel, the first part of which details Ferrier’s murderous exploits as a London cabbie.
A Study in Scarlet marks the first appearance of this archetypal pipe-smoking detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
The character of Sherlock Holmes has been frequently adapted and repurposed by a variety of authors. In Mitch Cullin’s A Slight Trick of the Mind, Holmes has retired to tend to these creatures, whose royal jelly he believes can cure dementia.
A Study in Scarlet
Sherlock Holmes [accept either]
bees &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name some works by the Ancient Greek comic playwright Aristophanes.
In this perhaps best-known Aristophanes play, Dionysus attempts to bring the playwright Euripides back from the dead with the help of Xanthias. The title amphibians form the chorus with a refrain of “Brekekekèx-koàx-koáx.”
In this play, the title character leads a group of women to refuse to have sex with their husbands until the end of the Peloponnesian War. A group of women take over the Acropolis in this play which also features Lampito.
This play opens with two slaves kneading dough and focuses on Trygaeus, who eventually marries Harvest and gossips with the title character after freeing her from a cave.
The Frogs [accept Batrachoi; accept Ranae]
Lysistrata [accept Lysistrátē; accept Army Disbander]
Peace [accept Eirēnē] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name the most famous works of some Scottish authors.
Robert Louis Stevenson’s best-known work is arguably this novella which follows Gabriel John Utterson as he investigates his kind-hearted friend, who he discovers transforms into an evil man from time to time.
Another Scottish author wrote The Admirable Crichton (“CRY-ton”) but is most famous for writing a “fairy-play” about this character, who is featured alongside many characters from the Darling family.
Yet another Scottish writer, Muriel Spark, wrote a novel titled for The Prime of this character, a teacher at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls in Edinburgh. This character selects a few girls as the crème de la crème.
(The) Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
Peter Pan [prompt on partial; prompt on The Boy Who Wouldn’t Grow Up]
Miss Jean Brodie [accept either] &lt;CL&gt;
The only thing better for your health than poetry is fruit. For 10 points each, name some things about both.
Robert Frost writes, “I cannot rub the strangeness from my sight” in a poem titled “After [picking this fruit].” This fruit comes in varieties like Red Delicious and Gala.
In “This Is Just to Say,” William Carlos Williams confesses to having eaten some examples of this fruit “that were in / the icebox / and which / you were probably / saving / for breakfast.”
Seamus Heaney’s poem about picking this fruit recalls being sent out “with milk cans, pea tins, jam-pots” and laments, “Each year I hoped they’d keep, knew they would not.” This fruit also titles a Yusef Komunyakaa poem.
apples [or “After Apple-Picking”; accept Malus pumila from over-achievers]
plums [accept Prunus domestica or Prunus salicina or Prunus simonii]
blackberries [or blackberry or “Blackberry-Picking”; accept Rubus] &lt;CL&gt;
This character sometimes goes by the pseudonym Henry Flower. For 10 points each:
Name this character who, according to his creator, does not have a romantic encounter with Gerty MacDowell as fireworks explode. In response to one question from this character, another remembers saying, “yes I will Yes.”
In the novel Ulysses, Leopold Bloom finally meets this character visiting Mina Purefoy in a maternity ward. This character is also the protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Ulysses and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man are by this Irish author of Dubliners.
Leopold Bloom [prompt on Bloom]
Stephen Dedalus [accept either]
James Joyce &lt;CL&gt;
There are lots of goyim in America known for their writing, but let’s not forget the Jews. For 10 points each:
Name this Beat poet who invoked his Jewish heritage to write “Kaddish” after his mother’s death, and also wrote about seeing “the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness” in “Howl.”
This novelist who focuses on the Jewish-American experience set many of his works in Newark and created the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman, who appears in American Pastoral. He also wrote Portnoy’s Complaint.
This Jewish-American writer produced several novels about Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish communities in Brooklyn, including The Chosen, The Promise, and My Name is Asher Lev.
(Irwin) Allen Ginsberg
Philip (Milton) Roth
Chaim Potok &lt;CL&gt;
In mathematics, this thinker used intersecting conics to find geometric solutions for cubic equations. For 10 points each:
Identify this poet and astronomer whose most famous collection was translated from Arabic into English by Edward FitzGerald and includes the line, “The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ / Moves on.”
Omar Khayyam is best known for this collection of quatrains which contains the aforementioned quote as well as the line, “A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread—and Thou.”
In the most famous version of FitzGerald’s translation, that quatrain in the Rubaiyat opens by describing one of these specific objects “underneath the Bough.”
Omar Khayyam
the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
a Book of Verses &lt;CL&gt;
Though he’s celebrated around the world, some cities were more important to Shakespeare than others. For 10 points each:
Most of Shakespeare’s histories are set in this city, which is also the location of the Globe Theatre, where his plays were typically performed.
This city serves as the setting for Romeo and Juliet, prologue to which opens, “Two households, both alike in dignity, / In fair [this city], where we lay our scene.”
In The Taming of the Shrew, Petruchio travels from Verona to this other Italian city which serves as the main setting of the play. Baptista Minola lives in this city with his daughters Bianca and Kate.
London [prompt on Southwark]
Verona
Padua [accept Padova] &lt;CL&gt;
This character was switched at birth with the title character of the work she appears in, leading to Sister Gudule accusing her of eating her child. For 10 points,
Name this character, whose act includes a pet using wooden tiles to spell the name Phoebus, the Captain of the King’s Archers who this character becomes obsessed with.
This other character dies embracing Esmeralda’s corpse and is the adopted son of the Archdeacon Claude Frollo. In one scene, he is elected Pope of Fools.
Quasimodo is the main character in The Hunchback of Notre-Dame, which was written by this French author of Les Misérables.
Esmeralda [accept Agnés]
Quasimodo Sunday [prompt on Sunday]
Victor Marie Hugo &lt;RY&gt;
. This writer was part of the womanism movement, which specifically criticized sexism against black women and racism within the feminist community. For 10 points each,
Name this Hunter College High School alumna, the lesbian poet and activist behind The First Cities and Zami: A New Spelling of My Name. She wrote the essay “The Master’s Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master’s House.”
Lorde wrote a book discussing her struggles with the breast variety of this disease; she died of its liver variety in 1992, perhaps due to exposure to toxins in the factory work she describes in Zami.
The word “womanist” was coined by this author, who once said “Womanist is to feminist as purple is to lavender.” Her most famous novel features its protagonist falling in love with the jazz singer Shug Avery.
Audre Lorde [accept Audrey Lorde]
cancer [accept The Cancer Journals]
Alice (Malsenior) Walker &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about couples named George and Martha.
Perhaps the most famous George and Martha pairing had this last name and included the first President and first First Lady of the United States.
This play, which is split into the acts “Fun and Games,” “Walpurgisnacht,” and “The Exorcism,” features a marriage between a George and a Martha, who prove to be awful party hosts for a young professor and his wife.
In a children’s book series by James Marshall, George and Martha, two of these animals, are best friends. A recurring motif in that series about these animals is split pea soup.
Washington [accept George and Martha Washington]
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
hippopotamuses [accept hippos; begrudgingly accept hippopotami] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things Pablo Neruda did in his poems.
In one poem, Neruda says, “Tonight I can” perform this action, which he also did for his career as an author.
“Tonight I Can Write” is featured in this collection about romance, which Neruda wrote in his teens. One work in this collection declares, “[I]n you everything sank!”
In English, the title of another Neruda poem refers to doing this action. That poem titled for this action opens with the line, “It so happens I am sick of being a man.”
write [accept word forms; accept escribir and conjugations; accept “Tonight I Can Write (The Saddest Lines)” or “Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche”]
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair [accept Veinte poemas de amor y una canción desesperada]
walking [accept word forms; accept “Walking Around”; do not accept or prompt on synonyms] &lt;CL&gt;
Like the novel which precedes it, this novel only has one named character, a dog named Constant. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel, which opens with more than 80% of the populace casting blank ballots in a parliamentary election.
Seeing is a sequel to this novel in which the doctor’s wife is one of the few not afflicted by the title condition. A man is stabbed with scissors in this novel.
Seeing and Blindness are both works by this Portuguese Nobel Laureate who also wrote The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.
Seeing [or Essay on Lucidity; accept Ensaio sobre a Lucidez]
Blindness [or Essay on Blindness; accept Ensaio sobre a cegueira]
José (de Sousa) Saramago &lt;CL&gt;
In a 1971 novel by John Gardner, the name of this place is changed to the word for a male deer. For 10 points each:
Identify this place which a legendary hero defends from Grendel in an epic poem. Hrothgar built this place for him and his armies, and the aforementioned hero returns to this place to give him the hilt of a sword.
Heorot is a locale in this epic poem featuring Grendel, Grendel’s mother, Hrothgar, and the title hero who fights a dragon in this work’s climax.
Beowulf is thought to be the oldest surviving epic poem in this specific language. Other works in this language include The Battle of Maldon and the Nine Herbs Charm.
Heorot [accept Herot; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal descriptions like “the mead hall in Beowulf”; do not accept or prompt on “Hart”]
Beowulf
Old English [do not accept or prompt on “English” or “Middle English” or “Modern English”] &lt;CL&gt;
. In this work, the protagonist visits a sanatorium, and ends up staying there for seven years due to tuberculosis. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that ends with Hans Castorp joining the military to fight in World War I.
The Magic Mountain was written by this German author of Death in Venice.
Hans was visiting this cousin of his, who uses terms “up here” and “down there” to describe life at the sanatorium and outside of it, respectively. In one of Hans’ dreams, this character rides a bobsled down the mountain.
The Magic Mountain [accept Der Zauberberg]
(Paul) Thomas Mann
Joachim Ziemssen [accept either] &lt;RY&gt;
In one short story, Mark Twain claims that everything changes except people with this profession. For 10 points each:
Name this profession which that story is “about.” One person with this profession uses a basin to shield his hat from the rain, but another character becomes convinced it is the helmet of Mambrino.
This character finds that entire incident hilarious, because he knows the helmet is nothing but a barber’s washbasin. At one point, this donkey-riding squire gets wrapped in a blanket and tossed into the air.
Sancho Panza is the sidekick of the title character of this novel by the Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes, which is sometimes incorrectly cited as the earliest canonical novel ever written.
barber [prompt on hairdresser]
Sancho Panza [accept either]
Don Quixote [accept The Ingenious Nobleman Sir Quixote of la Mancha; accept El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha] &lt;CL&gt;
This character goes to live with another family after a murder by the Mbaino. For 10 points each:
Identify this teenage boy whose adoptive father helps kill him to avoid seeming as weak as Unoka, going against the urging of Ezedu. He is seen as a positive, masculine influence on Nwoye.
Ikemefuna dies at the hands of this adoptive father of his, a wrestler and member of the Umuofia clan. This character is the protagonist of Things Fall Apart.
Things Fall Apart is by this Nigerian author of Civil Peace and No Longer At Ease. He criticizes Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness in An Image of Africa.
Ikemefuna
Okonkwo
Chinua Achebe [accept Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe] &lt;CL&gt;
Lionel Trilling wrote the preface for the United States edition of this book. For 10 points each:
Name this nonfiction account of its author’s experiences in the Spanish Civil War. It includes many musings about different leftist movements and became a symbol of anti-Stalinism opposed by communists for decades.
Homage to Catalonia was a work by this British writer who also described a dystopian future featuring Big Brother, as seen through the eyes of Winston Smith, in 1984.
The idea in 1984 that a person may be required by a government to think an equation equals this number is a motif of brainwashing. Winston is unsure if everyone believing that equation equals this number makes it true.
Homage to Catalonia
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair]
five &lt;CL&gt;
<em>The Protocol of the Elders of</em> this place is published serially in the publication <em>Black Garterbelt</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this place in the Small Magellanic Cloud home to a zoo with a geodesic dome. Montana Wildhack gives birth in this place.
Billy Pilgrim, who becomes “unstuck in time,” is kidnapped by Tralfamadorians in this Kurt Vonnegut novel.
While a prisoner of war at the title building in Slaughterhouse-Five, Billy Pilgrim survives this event, caused by the Allies during World War II, by hiding in a cellar.
Tralfamadore [or Tralfamadorian zoo or Tralfamadorian planet]
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death [prompt on subtitle]
firebombing of Dresden [accept equivalents; prompt on partial; prompt on vague answers like attack on Dresden] &lt;CL&gt;
<em>The Seasons</em>, a Lithuanian poem by Kristijonas Donelaitis (“KRIS-ti-yo-nas doe-NE-lie-tis”), is written in this meter. For 10 points each:
Identify this meter named in part for a poetic foot consisting of a stressed syllable followed by two unstressed syllables. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was criticized for using this meter to write Evangeline.
This epic poem is written in dactylic hexameter. A prophecy states that the protagonist of this epic poem will help build Alba Longa, and after leaving one city, that protagonist sees smoke from a funeral pyre.
This Roman poet of the Eclogues and the Georgics also wrote the Aeneid.
dactylic hexameter [prompt on partial]
The Aeneid [do not accept or prompt on “Aeneas”]
Virgil [or Vergil; accept Publius Vergilius Maro; prompt on Publius or Maro] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about members of the Dumas family.
The most famous member of the Dumas family was Alexandre Dumas, père, whose literary works include The Count of Monte Cristo and a novel named for three people with this profession: Porthos, Athos, and Aramis.
That Dumas’s son, Alexandre Dumas, fils, was also a writer, perhaps best known for The Lady of the Camellias, which was eventually adapted into this Giuseppe Verdi opera in which Violetta gets tuberculosis.
The first Dumas’s father and second Dumas’s grandfather was a notable military man, the highest-ranking man of African descent to ever serve in any European army and the first person of color in France to achieve this rank between colonel and major general.
musketeers [accept mousquetaires]
La traviata [accept The Fallen Woman]
brigadier general [prompt on general; prompt on Brig. Gen.] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about <em>The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock</em> by T. S. Eliot.
Prufrock contains a repeated couplet in which “the women come and go / Talking of” this artist, who painted scenes from Genesis on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.
In another stanza, Prufrock exclaims, “No! I am not [this character], nor was meant to be.” This character laments, “How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable / Seem to me all the uses of this world!” in a different work.
Prufrock ends with “human voices [waking] us,” which causes this action to occur. Billy Collins wrote about “The Art of” performing this action.
Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni [prompt on any non-underlined named]
Prince Hamlet [do not accept anything else]
we drown [accept word forms] &lt;CL&gt;
. John Ferrier’s revenge quest takes him from Utah to London in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this detective novel, the first part of which details Ferrier’s murderous exploits as a London cabbie.
A Study in Scarlet marks the first appearance of this archetypal pipe-smoking detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
The character of Sherlock Holmes has been frequently adapted and repurposed by a variety of authors. In Mitch Cullin’s A Slight Trick of the Mind, Holmes has retired to tend to these creatures, whose royal jelly he believes can cure dementia.
A Study in Scarlet
Sherlock Holmes [accept either]
bees &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the literary career of Graham Greene.
Greene poked fun at British intelligence services in his novel set in this country, Our Man in Havana.
This novel by Greene focuses on the moral ruin and eventual death of Major Henry Scobie, a British official working in Africa whose guilt over his affair with Helen and the death of Ali lead him to commit suicide.
Greene sparked legal action by discussing the sex appeal of this child star in a review of the movie Wee Willie Winkie. This actress also appears in The Little Princess and Curly Top, featuring “Animal Crackers in My Soup.”
Republic of Cuba [accept República de Cuba]
The Heart of the Matter
Shirley Temple (Black) &lt;CL&gt;
In this state, Uncle Willie hides from the Ku Klux Klan in a vegetable bin. For 10 points each:
Identify this U.S. state where the protagonist of one work and her brother, Bailey, are sent to live with their grandmother and uncle in the town of Stamps.
Stamps, Arkansas is a major setting in this work by the poet of “On the Pulse of Morning.” This work takes its title from the Paul Laurence Dunbar poem “Sympathy.”
This African American author wrote the autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Arkansas
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
Maya Angelou [accept Marguerite Annie Johnson; prompt on Maya or My or Marguerite] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some types of people from titles in modern Indian literature.
Vikram Seth wrote a novel titled for A Suitable [one of these people]. John Boyne wrote about one of these people with a certain pattern on his sleepwear in a work set during the Holocaust.
Arundhati Roy’s first novel is titled for [one of these people] of Small Things. After rebelling against one of these figures in Paradise Lost, Satan is forced to leave Heaven.
Chandrahas Choudhury wrote a novel about one of these figures named Arzee. The most famous work by Swedish author Pär Lagerkvist (PAAR lo-GER-kreest) is titled for one of these figures.
boys [accept A Suitable Boy or The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas]
gods [accept The God of Small Things]
dwarf [or dwarves; accept Arzee the Dwarf or The Dwarf] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some authors who wrote about houses.
This Spanish playwright and poet included only female characters in his The House of Bernarda Alba. He also wrote about the disastrous end of the Groom in Blood Wedding.
This Trinidadian Nobel Laureate and author of A Bend in the River wrote about Mohun marrying into the Tulsi family in A House for Mr Biswas.
This Mexican-American writer is best-known for a novel alternately referred to as a vignette collection, which focuses on Esperanza Cordero’s childhood in Chicago and is entitled The House on Mango Street.
Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca; prompt on García alone]
Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
Sandra Cisneros &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points, name some things about Medieval literature by women.
In the 1370s, Catherine of Siena wrote one of these works “of divine providence,” a conversation between God and a soul. More generally, this term refers to lines exchanged by two characters, in contrast to a monologue.
Many literary Medieval women were nuns, including Bridget of this country. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is by another author from this country, Stieg Larsson.
This Medieval poet and biographer is best known for The Treasure of the City of Ladies and The Book of the City of Ladies. Her The Tale of the Rose was a criticism of the work of Jean de Meun.
dialogue [accept The Dialogue of Divine Providence]
Kingdom of Sweden [accept Konungariket Sverige]
Christine de Pizan [accept Christine de Pisan] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about the literary aspect of the New Sincerity cultural movement, sometimes equated with post-postmodernism.
New Sincerity was popularized by this author and essayist who wrote the monumental novel Infinite Jest.
Another author associated with New Sincerity is Jonathan Franzen, who controversially said his novel The Corrections would be read by fewer men if officially recommended by this television personality, actress, and businesswoman.
Yet another writer prominent in New Sincerity, Zadie Smith, is probably best-known for this debut novel about Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones, which explores the modern-day social effects of British imperialism.
David Foster Wallace
Oprah Winfrey [accept either; accept Orpah Gail Winfrey; prompt on Orpah; prompt on O]
White Teeth &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some poets who wrote about the color white.
This Cuban writer of “I Cultivate a White Rose” is perhaps better known for the collection Versos Sencillos (“sen-SEE-yoce”) which includes a poem used in the song “Guantanamera.”
This “belle of Amherst” wrote “Dare you see a soul at the white heat?” and “Safe in their Alabaster Chambers,” as well as “I heard a Fly buzz— when I died” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Like Rudyard Kipling, this poet wrote a piece called “The White Man’s Burden.” In that poem by this author, he “stop[s], wounded by the wandering scent.”
José Martí [accept José Julián Martí Pérez]
Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson
Pablo Neruda [accept Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto; do not accept or prompt on “Jan Neruda”] &lt;CL&gt;
. This nine-part collection discusses the importance of <em>machismo</em> within the author’s native country. For 10 points each:
Name this collection that includes essays “The Sons of La Malinche” and “The Day of the Dead”.
The Labyrinth of Solitude was written by this Mexican poet of “Sunstone”.
This fifth essay in The Labyrinth of Solitude analyzes the history of Mexico, closely looking at the Mexican Revolution in addition to the two title concepts.
The Labyrinth of Solitude [accept El laberinto de la soledad]
Octavio Paz
“The Conquest and Colonialism” [accept “Conquista y colonia”] &lt;RY&gt;
One of this author’s plays was simply called <em>Play</em> and he often incorporated bicycles into works such as his novel <em>Molloy</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright of a one-act about a man who “[revels] in the word spool” on his 69th birthday in Krapp’s Last Tape.
Beckett also wrote this play about Vladimir and Estragon, who encounter Lucky and Pozzo while doing the title action and resolve to hang themselves if a certain figure fails to arrive.
In return for their company, Pozzo offers that Lucky either think or do this action to entertain Didi and Gogo. Lucky performs this action by doing “the Net”, which is really just an awkward shuffle.
Samuel Beckett
Waiting for Godot [accept En attendant de Godot]
dancing [accept different word forms]
The title of this essay comes from its author’s claim that women need money and the title object in order to write fiction. For 10 points each:
Name this essay, in which the author examines the life of Shakespeare’s fictional sister Judith, positing that women with the same gift are denied the same opportunities as men.
A Room of One’s Own was written by this English author, who is often said to have inspired feminism due to the themes of many of her novels, such as Orlando.
Woolf also wrote this novel about one day in the life of the title character named Clarissa, who hears about the suicide of the WWI veteran Septimus Smith at her party.
A Room of One’s Own
Virginia Woolf
Mrs. Dalloway
Answer the following about Roman satire. For 10 points each:
This author coined many famous maxims in his Satires, including phrases describing Roman society, such as “who will watch the watchmen” and “bread and circuses.”
This work of Menippean satire focuses on Encolpius and his servant Giton, and in one scene, all the characters are invited to a feast hosted by the freedman Trimalchio.
This poet wrote for Maecenas and was well known for his Satires. In Book 2, Satire 6, he was inspired to pun on his own name by the phrase carpe diem, which he had coined in his Odes.
Juvenal
Satyricon
Horace
The title character of this play catches Dr. Astrov kissing Yelena as he brings her flowers. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the title estate manager attempts to shoot professor Serebryakov twice after he announces that he announces he's moving to Finland.
In this play by the same author of Uncle Vanya, because of the actress Nina’s love for the popular playwright Trigorin, Konstantin ends up shooting both himself and the title bird.
This author wrote both Uncle Vanya and The Seagull, as well as The Cherry Orchard.
Uncle Vanya
The Seagull
Anton Chekhov
The horse Bessie is owned by Howie Newsome, the milkman for this town. For 10 points each:
Name this town, in which the stage manager acts as a minister for a wedding, a soda shop owner, a local townsman, and other roles.
Grover’s Corners is the setting of this play by Thornton Wilder, focusing on the lives of Emily Webb and George Gibbs.
In the opening of Our Town, this choir leader directs the rehearsal of the hymn “Blessed Be the Tie that Binds.” In Act III, it is revealed that this character committed suicide.
Grover’s Corners
Our Town
Simon Stimson [accept either underlined portion]
One character in this play invokes the Napoleonic Code in reference to the Belle Reve estate. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which one character comes to Elysian Fields to live with her sister, whose husband Stanley throws a radio out the window during Mitch’s poker game.
A Streetcar Named Desire is set in this jazzy city in Louisiana, which includes a famous French Quarter.
This novel is also set in New Orleans, and focuses on Ignatius Reilly, whose misadventures take him to places like the Night of Joy strip club, after officer Mancuso tries to arrest him.
A Streetcar Named Desire
New Orleans [accept NOLA]
A Confederacy of Dunces
Samuel Taylor Coleridge considered this play to have one of the three most perfect plots in literature. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Master Lovewit attempts to foil the tricks of Face, while the con artist Subtle pretends to create the philosopher’s stone, a work of Ben Jonson.
This author used The Alchemist as the title for his novel, which focuses on the Andalusian shepherd boy Santiago, and his journey to Egypt to discover treasure.
Coelho is an author from this country, and most of his books are written in his native language of Portuguese.
The Alchemist
Paulo Coelho
Brazil
This poet described how the title creature pours “profuse strains of unpremeditated art” in his poem “To a Skylark.” For 10 points each:
Name this romantic poet who wrote an elegy telling people to “weep for Adonais!”, and addressed another of his poems to a “breath of Autumn’s being.”
Shelley also wrote this poem, describing a “shattered visage” of a former “king of kings” that rests on a pedestal reading, “Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”
This poem, the last major work of Shelley before he died, was left unfinished and described a vision of a chariot rolling over a multitude, as well as the title concept corrupting the spirit.
Percy Shelley
“Ozymandias”
The Triumph of Life
The protagonist of this play convinces a character to “die beautifully” and is pressured by Judge Brack concerning the cause of that death. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the title character commits suicide after burning Lovborg’s manuscript.
In this other play by Henrik Ibsen, the protagonist Nora leaves and slams the door on her husband Torvald, after proclaiming that she does not “believe any longer in wonderful things happening.”
In A Doll’s House, this character places two cards with a black cross over the name in a mailbox, after confessing his love for Nora and revealing that he is dying of “tuberculosis of the spine.”
Hedda Gabler
A Doll’s House
Dr. Rank
This author wrote about an officer who confesses his love to Bathilde in his unfinished work <em>Lucien Leuwen</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Julien Sorel choosing between the military and the clergy in The Red and the Black.
Stendhal also wrote this novel in which the young Italian nobleman Fabrizio del Dongo wanders onto the field at the Battle of Waterloo, and later spends the rest of his life in a monastery.
Stendhal was a 19th century realist writer from this country, which was also home to Charles Baudelaire.
Stendhal [accept Marie-Henri Beyle]
The Charterhouse of Parma
France
The protagonist of this novel thinks about her husband Luke after seeing nobody executed on The Wall, before passing the shop Soul Scrolls. For 10 points each:
Name this novel set in the Republic of Gilead.
The Handmaid’s Tale was written by this Canadian author.
In The Handmaid’s Tale, this wife of the commander watches her husband have sex with Offred during “the ceremony” and later finds out about a secret relationship between the two, outside of “the ceremony.”
The Handmaid’s Tale
Margaret Atwood
Serena Joy [accept either underlined portion]
The protagonist of this novel marries Joe Starks and meets Phoebe Watson after previously being married to Logan Killicks. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the life of Janie Crawford, in which she shoots her third husband Tea Cake Woods after he is bit by a rabid dog in the Everglades.
This African American author wrote Their Eyes Were Watching God, as well as her award-winning autobiography, Dust Tracks on a Road.
Zora Neale Hurston grew up in Eatonville, a town in this state, which she also made the setting of Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
Zora Neale Hurston
Florida
Fanny Price is forced to move to this estate in Northamptonshire when she is 10 years old. For 10 points each:
Name this estate owned by Sir Thomas Bertram, where Fanny lives with her cousins Julia, Maria, Edmund, and Tom.
In Emma, this orphaned daughter of Colonel Campbell is the sole subject of Emma’s envy. She shares a first name with the author of Emma, Mansfield Park, and Pride and Prejudice.
The youngest of the Bennet sisters in Pride and Prejudice is this 15-year-old, who elopes with George Wickham.
Mansfield Park
Jane Fairfax [accept either underlined part]
Lydia Bennet
In a novel by this author, one character sees a giant ‘A’ formed in the sky by a meteor, as he stands atop a scaffold with two other characters. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about the love triangle between Dimmesdale, Chillingworth, and Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
Hawthorne also wrote this novel, in which the title estate was seized from its rightful owner, Matthew Maule, after he was accused of practicing witchcraft and executed.
In the novel, the current resident of the house is Hepzibah, who has this family surname. The mysterious attic lodger Holgrave writes a history of this family.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
The House of the Seven Gables
Pyncheon family
Pat Barker’s novel <em>The Ghost Road</em> won the Booker Prize in 1995 and was the last novel in her Regeneration Trilogy, set during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war, which is the setting for a John McCrae poem that describes people lying “Between the crosses, row on row,” who “shall not sleep, though poppies grow.”
One of the most famous World War I poets was this man, who wrote the anti-war poems “Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce et Decorum Est” based on his experiences as a soldier.
Wilfred Owen’s work was greatly influenced by this leading war poet, who protested the war in his “Soldier’s Declaration” of 1917 and wrote poems such as “Suicide in the Trenches.”
World War I [accept First World War or the Great War]
Wilfred Owen
Siegfried Sassoon
One character grabs the gold pins from this woman’s dress and plunges them into his eyes out of despair. For 10 points each:
Name this female character, who hangs herself in her bedroom after a former shepherd from Mt. Cithaeron reveals the story of her son.
Oedipus marries his mother Jocasta and kills his father Laius in the play Oedipus Rex by this Greek tragedian.
This brother of Jocasta and King of Thebes offered her hand in marriage to anyone who could free the city from the Sphynx, and in a later play, sentenced Antigone to death.
Jocasta
Sophocles
Creon
This character discovers the body of Venantius, a manuscript translator and friend of the illuminator Adelmo, in a jar of pig’s blood. For 10 points each:
Name this protagonist, who discovers Jorge of Burgos in a secret room of a library with the comedy section of Aristotle’s Poetics.
William of Baskerville is tasked with solving a series of strange murders at one of these places, the workplace and home of monks.
William of Baskerville is the protagonist of this novel by the Italian author Umberto Eco.
William of Baskerville [prompt on impartial]
monastery
The Name of the Rose
This poet of “The Weary Blues” was one of the leaders of the Harlem Renaissance. For 10 points each:
Name this influential African American poet who wrote “My soul has grown deep like the rivers” in his “The Negro Speaks of Rivers”.
In his poem “Harlem” when Hughes asks, “What happens to a dream deferred?”, he ponders, “Does it stink like [this rotten foodstuff]?” Give the word Hughes used.
This other poem by Hughes reveals that “they send [him] to eat in the kitchen” but imagines how “tomorrow / [he’ll] be at the table” and “they’ll see how beautiful” he is.
Langston Hughes
meat
“I, Too”
Answer the following about famous literary houses. For 10 points each:
Esperanza describes growing up in the Mexican-American community in Chicago, and longs to escape the title location in this coming of age novel by Sandra Cisneros.
This location serves as the house for the migrant workers at Ocean View Orchards in a namesake John Irving novel.
This character marries into and becomes dominated by the Tulsi family, and makes it his goal to own his own home in a novel by V.S. Naipaul.
The House on Mango Street
The Cider House
Mr. Biswas
In a monologue, the phrase “What a piece of work is man” is told to these two characters. For 10 points each:
Name these characters, who are sent by Claudius to spy on Hamlet, and are later executed in England after Hamlet rewrites a letter calling for their death
This playwright wrote Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead and Arcadia.
In Arcadia, Hannah Jarvis studies the life of this man, a friend of the tutor Septimus Hodge. This 19th century poet had an affair with Lady Caroline Lamb.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Tom Stoppard
Lord Byron
This man wrote a philosophical treatise advocating for nonviolence titled <em>The Kingdom of God is Within You.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote a novella titled after a Beethoven composition in which a man asks, “What is love?” during a train ride.
In this Tolstoy novel, Konstantin Levin attempts to court Kitty. The title countess has an affair with Count Vronsky.
At the beginning of the novel, Anna and Vronsky receive an “evil omen” when they see a worker killed by one of these things, while at the end Anna commits suicide by throwing herself in front of a moving one of these.
Leo Tolstoy
Anna Karenina
trains [accept locomotives]
At the end of the novel in which she appears in, the protagonist feels truly happy for the first time after watching this character ride a carousel. For 10 points each:
Name this sister of Holden Caulfield, whom he takes to the Central park Zoo towards the end of the novel.
Holden Caulfield is the protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye, a work by this author, who also wrote about Seymour Glass in the short story “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.”
In The Catcher in the Rye, Holden visits this former English teacher of his, seeking advice, but leaves after this teacher touches his hair while he sleeps.
Phoebe Caulfield
Jerome David Salinger
Mr. Antolini
This lengthy novel is divided into four parts, including “Beyond the Zero” and “The Counterforce”, and much of it is set in The Zone, a post-war wasteland. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the U.S. Army lieutenant Tyrone Slothrop that begins “A screaming comes across the sky”.
In Gravity’s Rainbow, a map of Tyrone Slothrop’s sexual encounters shows that they foreshadow strikes by these rockets. The novel ends as one of these rockets named 000000 hits.
Gravity’s Rainbow is by this reclusive American author of The Crying of Lot 49 and short stories like “Entropy”.
Gravity’s Rainbow
V-2 rockets
Thomas Pynchon
Answer some questions about a French literary classic, <em>The Little Prince</em>, for 10 points each:
The Little Prince is a children’s book written during World War II by this French author and aviator.
On the fifth planet he visits, the little prince meets a man who is continuously doing these two actions and is unable to sleep because of the planet’s small size and short period of rotation.
After one of these flowers begins growing on his home asteroid, the prince falls in love with it and builds a glass globe to protect it. Robert Burns wrote a poem titled “A Red, Red [one of these flowers]”.
Antoine de Saint-Exupery
lighting and extinguishing a lamp [accepting turning a lamp on and off or obvious equivalents; prompt on partial answer]
a rose
Two characters travel through a Shanty Town looking for this character, before this character is finally found in prison with his cousin Matthew. For 10 points each:
Name this character who accidently shoots and kills Arthur Jarvis while robbing his house.
Stephen Kumalo prays at the break of dawn as his son Absalom receives his death sentence at the end of this novel, set amidst the economic and racial divisions of Johannesburg.
Cry, the Beloved Country was written by this South African author.
Absalom
Cry, the Beloved Country
Alan Paton
This man was the first person to be buried in the Poets’ Corner of Westminster Abbey. For 10 points each:
Name this English author of The Canterbury Tales.
After the general prologue, this tale is the first story told in the Canterbury Tales, and describes a joust between Palamon and Arcite to decide who gets to marry the Princess Emily.
The knight complains after hearing the monk’s tale, causing the Host to call for this new story, which tells the tale of the rooster Chanticleer escaping death from a fox.
Geoffrey Chaucer
“The Knight’s Tale”
“The Nun’s Priest’s Tale”
The protagonist of this novel remains in the Hotel des Bains, even after his bags have returned from Como. For 10 points each:
After eating overripe strawberries, the title event of this novel happens to Gustav von Aschenbach on the beach, while he watches the Polish boy Tadzio.
Death in Venice is a work by this author, who wrote about Hans Castorp’s visit to a sanatorium in The Magic Mountain.
Mann also wrote this novel about the decline of the title German family, which is brought to an end after the death of Hanno from Typhoid.
Death in Venice
Thomas Mann
Buddenbrooks
After being told about the unexpected death of Clarisse McClellan, this character suspects the presence of “The Hound.” For 10 points each:
Name this fireman, who is reported by his wife Mildred for reciting the poem “Dover Beach” and later kills Captain Beatty.
Guy Montag is the protagonist of Fahrenheit 451, which was written by this American author, who is also known for his science fiction stories such as The Martian Chronicles.
At the end of Fahrenheit 451, Guy Montag is assigned to memorize this biblical book, which contains the line “vanity of vanities; all is vanity.”
Guy Montag [accept either underlined part]
Ray Bradbury
Ecclesiastes
This poem claims that the world “Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that describes an “eternal note of Sadness” that Sophocles heard long ago on the Aegean, and begins “The sea is calm tonight.”
“Dover Beach” was written by this English poet.
In the last line of “Dover Beach,” the speaker compares life to a “darkling plain” in which these groups “clash by night.”
“Dover Beach”
Matthew Arnold
ignorant armies
The adopted boy Sohrab appears to smile at the end of this novel, as the protagonist performs the title action. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Amir’s relationship with the Hazara boy Hassan is altered after watching the wicked Assef rape him, causing Amir to frame Hassan for theft.
The Kite Runner was the first novel written by this Afghan-American author, who followed that story with his novel A Thousand Splendid Suns.
This third novel by Hosseini, told from multiple perspectives, focuses on the relationship between Abdullah and his sister Pari, who is sold by their father to a couple in Kabul.
The Kite Runner
Khaled Hosseini
And the Mountains Echoed
This character and his servant Ithamore poison an entire nunnery after his daughter Abigail converts to Christianity. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who dies by falling into a boiling cauldron intended for the Turkish prince Calymath.
The wealthy merchant Barabas is the title character of this play, in which Barabas’ gold is taken by the Turkish governor Ferenze after he refuses to convert to Christianity.
The Jew of Malta was written by this English playwright, who also wrote Doctor Faustus.
Barabas [prompt on, BUT DO NOT REVEAL “The Jew of Malta”
The Jew of Malta
Christopher Marlowe
Dave Moss and Shelley Levene are two salesmen who plan to steal the title leads in this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play which sees the hotshot salesman Ricky Roma convince James Lingk into buying real estate in its first act.
Glengarry Glen Ross was written by this American playwright, who also wrote about a plan to steal a coin collection in American Buffalo.
Both Glengarry Glen Ross and American Buffalo are set in this midwestern city. Carl Sandburg wrote a poem titled after this city, calling it the “Hog Butcher for the world.”
Glengarry Glen Ross
David Mamet
Chicago
At the end of this play, Orgon finally realizes the title character is a fraud. For 10 points each:
Name this comedy in which the title hypocrite pretends to be religious and pious while attempting to seduce Elmire, even though she is already engaged to Valere.
Tartuffe is by this French playwright who died after playing the title role of a hypochondriac in his play The Imaginary Invalid, which is ironic because he actually was sick with tuberculosis.
Moliere wrote a play titled The School for [these people], in which Arnolphe attempts to groom Agnes, who ends up falling in love with Horace.
Tartuffe
Moliere
wives [accept les femmes]
These two characters receive their collective nickname from Jack during a pig hunt, for 10 points each:
Name these two identical twins, who assimilate into Jack’s savage tribe after some persuasion from Roger. They warn Ralph about his coming fate after Piggy’s death.
Ralph and Piggy represent the voice of reason and civilization in this novel about a shipwreck by William Golding.
When the boys first arrive on the island, they agree that, during meetings, he who holds this item is allowed to speak. When a boulder strikes Piggy, he drops and shatters this item.
Samneric [or Sam and Eric]
Lord of the Flies
conch
This character drops a pot of palm-wine and cries “My father, they have killed me!” before Okonkwo slashes his throat with a machete. For 10 points each:
Name this “ill-fated lad” who was given as repayment from the Mbaino village because of the crimes of his father.
In Things Fall Apart, Ikemefuna comes to Umuofia right before this holiday celebrating planting season. Okonkwo beats his wife during this holiday, and his gun goes off during it.
Things Fall Apart was written by this Nigerian author, who accused Joseph Conrad of racism in his essay “An Image of Africa”.
Ikemefuna
Week of Peace
Chinua Achebe
This character’s brother, Valentine, is stabbed to death by the love interest of this character, who abandons her and causes her to drown her baby. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who refuses to leave her imprisonment, causing a voice from above to cry “she’s saved!” before her death.
Gretchen is the love interest of the titular character, who makes a deal with the devil Mephistopheles, in this play.
Faust was written by this German author.
Gretchen
Faust
Johann von Goethe
In this poem, a character who once “embroidered fantails” has her “horny feet protrude” from a sheet at her funeral. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that begins “Call the roller of big cigars” and bids the title character to “whip in kitchen cups concupiscent curds.”
This author of “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” also wrote about a creature whose eye was the only moving thing “Among twenty snowy mountains” in his poem “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
In this other Wallace Stevens poem, the speaker describes houses haunted “By white night-gowns” and “an old sailor” who in his sleep “Catches tigers in red weather.”
“The Emperor of Ice-Cream”
Wallace Stevens
“Disillusionment of Ten O’Clock”
This character becomes bored with her married lifestyle and craves an upper-class life after attending an elegant ball hosted by the Marquis d’Andervilliers. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who moves to the town of Yonville with her husband Charles, and later has affairs with Rodolphe and Léon.
Emma Bovary is the title protagonist of Madame Bovary, a novel by this author.
At the end of Madame Bovary, this local pharmacist, who rivaled with Charles and practiced medicine without a license, gains prominence among the people of Yonville.
Emma Bovary [accept Madame Bovary; prompt on “Emma” and “Bovary”]
Gustave Flaubert
Monsieur Homais
This author described “Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight” and claimed, “Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay” in one poem. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote “Do not go gentle into that good night.”
“Do not go gentle into that good night” is written in this 19-line poetic form, consisting of five tercets followed by a quatrain.
Thomas also wrote this poem, which begins “Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs,” and ends with time holding the speaker as he sang in his chains “like the sea.”
Dylan Thomas
villanelle
“Fern Hill”
The narrator of this story tells the reader that “what you mistake for madness is but over-acuteness of the sense” and is haunted by an old man’s “vulture eye.” For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which the narrator hears a sound similar to one “a watch makes when enveloped in cotton” coming from the title object under the floorboards.
“The Tell-Tale Heart” was written by this author of “The Raven.”
Poe also wrote this short story, in which the detective C. Auguste Dupin proves that the title crimes were committed by an orangutan
“The Tell-Tale Heart”
Edgar Allen Poe
“The Murders in the Rue Morgue”
In this story, the protagonist’s ghost haunts St. Petersburg and steals the title object from the “Very Important Personage.” For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which the clerk Akaky Akakievich buys and loses the title garment.
“The Overcoat” was written by this Russian author who wrote other short stories, such as “Diary of a Madman” and “The Nose.”
This unfinished novel by Gogol follows the exploits of Chichikov, who attempts to get rich by traveling the country and acquiring the title beings.
“The Overcoat”
Nikolai Gogol
Dead Souls
Some scholars suggest that a lost play by Aeschylus dealing with the delivery of this substance provides an aetiology for a torch race held every year in Athens. For 10 points each:
Name this substance that the Titan Prometheus brought to humans, the actions and consequences of which are discussed in the aforementioned trilogy by Aeschylus.
In addition to Prometheus Bound and Prometheus the Fire-Bringer, this play completed Aeschylus’ Prometheia trilogy, and it shares a title with a Percy Shelley play inspired by it.
The Prometheus myth first appeared in the poem, Theogony, by this 8th century Greek epic poet, and he revisited the story in his Works and Days.
fire
Prometheus Unbound
Hesiod
The swineherd Gurth escapes with the jester Wamba in this novel, and plans an attack on the castle Torquilstone in order to rescue Cedric and his guests. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the Black Knight is revealed to be King Richard I.
Ivanhoe was written by this Scottish author.
In the novel, this daughter of the Jewish man Isaac helps nurse Ivanhoe’s wounds, and he later rides off to defender before her witchcraft trial, killing Bois-Guilbert and saving her.
Ivanhoe
Sir Walter Scott
Rebecca
This author wrote about an artist who inflicts torture upon his apprentices in order to see what he is painting in his story “Hell Screen.” For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese author of the short story “The Spider’s Thread,” who also described different accounts of a murder in his story “In a Grove.”
This most famous short story by Akutagawa was combined with “In a Grove” for a film of the same title by Akira Kurosawa, and sees a poor servant rob a woman of her robe.
In “Rashomon,” the servant encounters the woman performing this action, which she claims is justified because the lady she is doing it to sold snake meat, claiming it was fish.
Ryunosuke Akutagawa [accept names in either order]
“Rashomon”
stealing hair from corpses
This man’s story is told by the Landlord in <em>Tales of a Wayside Inn</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character, whose “cry of alarm” is brought “To every Middlesex village and farm” after he instructs his friend to hang a lantern in “the North Church tower as a signal light.”
Paul Revere’s Ride was written by this American poet, who wrote an epic poem based on legends of the Ojibwe Indians, “The Song of Hiawatha.”
Longfellow also wrote this poem, in which the title character “looks the whole world in the face, For he owes not any man” and has a brow “wet with honest sweat.”
Paul Revere
Longfellow
“The Village Blacksmith”
One character realizes this fact after thoughtfully stroking a bronze structure and recalling all the “Old wives’ tales” he’d been told. For 10 points each:
Name this four-word phrase exclaimed by Garcin after he states “There’s no need for red-hot pokers.”
“Hell is other people” is found in this author’s play No Exit and refers to his idea about the ontological struggle of seeing oneself as an object, expressed in his work Being in Nothingness.
Sartre was influenced by this thinker after reading his ontological investigation in Being and Time.
“Hell is other people”
Jean-Paul Sartre
Martin Heidegger
One story in this collection follows the episode of Mr. Pinzada, a botany professor who lives in New England while his country undergoes a civil war, for 10 points each:
Name this collection of stories. The eponymous story concerns the Das family, who during their vacation nearly lose their son Bobby to monkeys.
Many of the stories in Interpreter of Maladies concern people from this country, such as the 64-year-old Boori Ma, a woman from Calcutta.
This Indian-American woman penned Interpreter of Maladies and her latest novel, The Lowland, was a candidate for the 2013 Man Booker prize.
Interpreter of Maladies
Republic of India
Nilanjana Sudeshna “Jhumpa” Lahiri
This novel opens at the Korova Milk Bar before the protagonist and his gang embark on a drug-induced crime rampage. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which the protagonist Alex is captured by the state and forced to undergo the Ludovico technique.
This author wrote about Alex and his gang of “droogs” in A Clockwork Orange.
After being cured of his violent tendencies and released back into society, Alex is beat and left for dead by his past friends, until he is rescued by this man, whom he had robbed in the past.
A Clockwork Orange
Anthony Burgess
F. Alexander [prompt on partial]
The Weird Sisters are three of these types of people in Macbeth. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whom Young Goodman Brown spends a night with in a Hawthorne short story, and Martha Corey and John Proctor are accused of being in Arthur Miller’s The Crucible.
This American author wrote about the lives of Alexandra, Jane, and Sukie, who all have an affair with Darryl Van Horne in his novel The Witches of Eastwick.
In Frank Baum’s novel The Wizard of Oz, Dorothy’s house crushes this witch, thus liberating the Munchkins from bondage.
witches
John Updike
The Wicked Witch of the East
Two characters in this novel stay at Madame Anna Sergevna’s estate, where Arkady meets his future wife, Anna’s sister Katya. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the self-proclaimed nihilist, Bazarov, who is challenged to a duel by Pavlov and later dies from blood poisoning after botching an autopsy.
Fathers and Sons is a work by this Russian author.
Turgenev also wrote this novel, in which the dying Tchulkaturin recounts his childhood love for Liza.
Fathers and Sons
Ivan Turgenev
Diary of a Superfluous Man
One author with this surname wrote a novel in which Romney is dismissed by Aurora Leigh. For 10 points each:
Give this surname, also held by another author who wrote a work about the Italian artist Andrea del Sarto in the collection Men and Women.
This collection by Elizabeth Browning opens by evoking the sweet years “Theocritus had sung of” and famously states “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.” in its 43rd poem.
In this poem by Robert Browning, his first ever short dramatic monologue, the speaker notes “and yet God has not said a word!” after he strangled the title girl with “all her yellow hair.”
Browning [accept Elizabeth Browning and Robert Browning]
Sonnets from the Portuguese
“Porphyria’s Lover”
Answer the following about the short stories of Ambrose Bierce. For 10 points each:
In this story, the soldier Peyton Farquhar imagines he has escaped from the title location, only to feel a heavy blow on the back of his neck as he tries to embrace his wife.
A child who turns out to be deaf-mute sleeps through and survives the title battle in this story, and discovers that the soldiers he had played with burned down his home.
Both An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge and Chickamauga were first collected in Bierce’s Tales of Soldiers and Civilians, which describes incidents in this war. Stephen Crane’s The Red Badge of Courage also depicts the gruesomeness of this war.
An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge
Chickamauga
the Civil War [accept “the war between the states” and obvious equivalents]
This author wrote a novel in which Jose Arcadia dreams about a glass city, leading him to found Macondo. For 10 points each:
Name this Colombian author who wrote about generations of the Buendia family in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
One Hundred Years of Solitude is an example of this two word genre for which Garcia Marquez was famous. Popular in Latin America, this genre describes the insertion of supernatural or surreal elements into ordinary settings.
This Garcia Marquez novel was partially inspired by Francisco Franco and chronicles the reign of a fictional Caribbean dictator as a “poem on the solitude of power”.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on “Gabo” or “Gabito”]
magical realism [accept marvelous realism]
The Autumn of the Patriarch
The title character of this play is given a gift of tennis balls by an ambassador from France before he declares war. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Shakespeare, in which the titular King of England delivers a speech on St Crispin’s Day, before leading a successful conquest of France.
In Henry V, a eulogy is given for this character, who appeared in both parts of Henry IV as a companion to Prince Hal. This character also appears in The Merry Wives of Windsor.
In Act II of Henry V, Henry is betrayed by three traitors, whom he toys with and punishes after finding out about their treachery. Name one of the three.
Henry V [prompt on just Henry]
Falstaff
Earl of Cambridge or Lord Scroop or Sir Thomas Grey
In this poem, the title figure and the speaker ride in a “Carriage [that] held but just [thems elves] - and Immortality.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the speaker rides past “the Setting Sun” after the title figure “kindly stopped” for her.
“Because I could not stop for Death” was written by this reclusive American poet.
In this poem by Dickinson, the speaker compares the title idea to a bird that “perches in the soul” and states that she “heard it in the chillest land - And on the strangest Sea.”
“Because I could not stop for Death”
Emily Dickinson
“‘Hope’ is the thing with feathers”
The last play by this author centers around a dominant matriarch, who imposes an eight-year mourning period on her daughters. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Adela’s suicide after the death of Pepe el Romano in his play The House of Bernarda Alba.
Garcia Lorca was an author from this European country. Lope de Vega was a leading author of this country’s Golden Century of Baroque literature.
Lorca wrote this poem, which repeats “I will not see it!” as well as a refrain in the first section describing the title event taking place “at five in the afternoon.”
Federico García Lorca
Spain
“Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter”
In real life, this man was the older brother of Plato, but Plato makes him say pretty dumb things like justice is “the advantage of the stronger.” For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Athenian who served as an interlocutor for Socrates in dialogues such as The Republic.
In a famous allegory from the The Republic, Socrates tells Glaucon about a person chained inside one of these places looking at shadows on the wall. The person then escapes, only to be killed when he returns and his former friends don’t like his whole “sun” spiel.
Glaucon tells a story about Gyges, who discovers one of these items of jewelry that makes the wearer invisible. Gyges then becomes evil, an experience often compared to online trolls and anonymity.
Glaucon
cave (accept “The Allegory of the Cave”)
ring (accept “The Ring of Gyges”) &lt;Jin&gt;
Near the end of one of this author’s plays, Daisy admits she finds the title creatures beautiful. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright who wrote the Berenger cycle, which includes The Killer, Exit the King, A Stroll in the Air, and the aforementioned play in which Berenger declares, “I’m not capitulating!”
Ionesco is often included in this literary movement, whose other members include Jean Genet and Friedrich Dürrenmatt. This movement largely focuses on nonsensical behavior and the ridiculousness of human existence.
An Ionesco play is titled The Future is in [these things], in which Jacques and Roberta are forced to make them. The Endians in Gulliver’s Travels argue over what ends of these food items to crack them on.
Eugène Ionesco
The Theater of the Absurd (prompt on just “the absurd”)
eggs &lt;Cohen&gt;
In this section of a larger work, the narrator cites Christ and Plato as reasons that he should faithfully reproduce the words of others, even if they are vulgar or rude. For 10 points each:
Name this section of that larger work, in which the narrator remarks among his company that he has “tyme and space” to speak his narrative. It also mentions a stay at the Tabard Inn.
The Canterbury Tales were written by this “father of English literature.” He is also known for Troilus and Criseyde and The Book of the Duchess.
A five-times married woman tells this tale from the Canterbury Tales, in which a knight is tasked by Queen Guinevere with finding what women most desire.
General Prologue to the Canterbury Tales (prompt on just Canterbury Tales)
Geoffrey Chaucer
“The Wife of Bath’s Tale” &lt;Cohen&gt;
One essay by this writer declares that “to be great is to be misunderstood” and that “A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” For 10 points each:
Name this American writer, a transcendentalist who wrote the essay “The Over-Soul.” If it helps, the name of his son is the same as his middle name – Waldo.
This Emerson essay urges people to follow their own instincts and ideas. It was published in 1841 as part of the collection Essays: First Series.
In this poem by Emerson, written in quatrains, the speaker and title character asserts he is “the doubter and the doubt.” This poem is notable for reflecting the transcendental tendency to accept non-Western philosophy.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
“Self-Reliance”
“Brahma” &lt;Cohen&gt;
This book’s sequel <em>Porno</em> was published in 2002. For 10 points each:
Name this book by Irvine Welsh about a group of heroin addicts. It consists of several short stories revolving around characters like Renton, Sick Boy, and Begbie.
Trainspotting is set in this Scottish city, its capital. Another book set here is Muriel Spark’s The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Miss Jean Brodie holds this occupation. Other characters with this occupation include Douglas Hector in the play The History Boys and the unaccountably cruel Wackford Squeers in Nicholas Nickleby.
Trainspotting
Edinburgh
schoolteacher (accept schoolmaster; accept any obvious equivalents, or specific subjects) &lt;Kuang&gt;
Though these tales are written in prose, they share many similarities with the epic poem. For 10 points each:
Name these epic tales from Nordic and German history that often feature stories about vikings. The term for these general chronicles come from the Norse word for “saying.”
Though the majority of sagas were written in Old Norse, they were predominantly written in this modern-day country. Many sagas feature tales of expedition to this place.
This Icelandic writer and politician wrote several literary works on Norse mythology, like the Prose Edda or Egil’s saga. You can give either his first name or surname.
sagas
Iceland (or Ísland)
Snorri Sturluson (accept either) &lt;Cohen&gt;
Works by this author include a short story in which children hear the house whispering “there must be more money.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of that short story, “The Rocking-Horse Winner,” as well as novels such as The Rainbow and Women in Love.
In this D.H. Lawrence novel, a wealthy woman’s husband is paralyzed after sustaining injuries in World War I, prompting her to carry out an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors, the novel’s title character.
Because of its heavy use of expletives and sexual content, Lady Chatterly’s Lover was banned in Britain as a work with this quality until 1960, when a landmark trial ruled it was of literary merit rather than this other quality.
D(avid) H(erbert) Lawrence
Lady Chatterly’s Lover
obscene (accept word forms; do not accept synonyms; accept Obscene Publications Act 1959) &lt;Cohen&gt;
One character in this novel defaces the sword of a naval cadet out of jealousy. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. The protagonist meets the clubfooted Kashiwagi and is inspired by the phrase, “if you meet the Buddha in the road, kill him,” to commit arson.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion is a novel by this Japanese author. He depicted the life of Shigekuni Honda in his Sea of Fertility tetralogy, and may have been inspired by his own homosexuality to write Confessions of a Mask.
In The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, the protagonist Mizoguchi slips a photograph of one of these people into Father Dosen’s newspaper to anger him. An Arthur Golden novel tells the Memoirs of one of these traditional Japanese hostesses.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion
Yukio Mishima
geisha (prompt on women; do not accept or prompt on “prostitute” or similar terms) &lt;Yue&gt;
The first scene of this play ends when a character gets hit in the face just as the protagonist had predicted. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the protagonist impersonates a judge, a forensic expert, and a bishop and invites the audience to choose between two results of a bombing.
Accidental Death of an Anarchist is by Dario Fo, a playwright from this country. Another playwright from this country, Luigi Pirandello, wrote the play Six Characters in Search of an Author.
In another Pirandello play, an aristocrat thinks he has this first name after falling off his horse. A Shakespeare character of this name urges his army to attack with the line, “Once more unto the breach, dear friends.”
Accidental Death of an Anarchist
Italy
Henry (accept Enrico IV or Henry V) &lt;Yue&gt;
This novel appeared on Amazon.com’s list of bestselling books following the election of Donald Trump. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Buzz Windrip defeats FDR on a platform of traditional values. He proceeds to instill totalitarian rule, and an organization called the New Underground forms to oppose Windrip’s regime.
It Can’t Happen Here is a novel by this author who portrayed a hypocritical yet successful evangelist in Elmer Gantry. He wrote about the title middle-class businessman of Zenith in his novel Babbitt.
In this Lewis novel titled for the canonical city thoroughfare, Carol Milford moves with her husband Will Kennicott to Gopher Prairie, Minnesota and begins to dislike her quaint, small-town life.
It Can’t Happen Here
Sinclair Lewis
Main Street &lt;Yue&gt;
The first of these works begins with a line often translated as “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?” For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 10 poems that pose weighty existential questions. They were dedicated to Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis and named for her castle on the Adriatic Sea.
The Duino Elegies were written by this Modernist poet, whose Letters to a Young Poet were published three years after his death from leukemia. He also wrote the Sonnets to Orpheus.
The Letters to a Young Poet can be considered a work in this genre which takes Rilke’s assertion that “you must change your life” to heart. How to Win Friends and Influence People is a canonical example in this generic genre that places emphasis on personal transformation or lifestyle change.
Duino Elegies
Rainer Maria Rilke
self-help (or self-improvement) &lt;Cohen&gt;
This poem ends “sun moon stars rain” and repeats the phrase “up so floating many bells down.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which chronicles the lives of generically named people in an unnamed town and ends with a funeral.
This author wrote “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” He also wrote the poem “buffalo bill’s” and “I sing of Olaf big and glad.”
A Cummings poem remarks on the ladies of this town who “live in furnished souls.” Junot Diaz and Stephen Greenblatt teach at the universities of MIT and Harvard in this town.
“anyone lived in a pretty how town”
Edward Estlin Cummings (or ee cummings)
Cambridge, Massachusetts (do not accept or prompt on Boston) &lt;Cohen&gt;
In one scene in this play, the main character laments, “of all creatures that can feel and think, we women are the worst treated things alive.” For 10 points each:
Name this Greek tragedy, in which a granddaughter of Helios kills her children and her lover’s new wife and father-in-law as an act of revenge against that lover’s faithlessness.
This Greek playwright who wrote The Trojan Women as well as The Bacchae wrote Medea.
At the end of Medea, Medea escapes in the chariot of Helios in a classic example of this plot device in which things are arbitrarily and abruptly tied up neatly. This device takes its name from the “machine” that literally brought players to the stage in Greek drama.
Medea
Euripides
Deus ex machina (prompt on “god from the machine,” I guess) &lt;Cohen&gt;
There should be No Way you don’t get 30 points on this bonus about Norway! For 10 points each:
First, name this Shakespeare play that ends with lines spoken by Norwegian prince Fortinbras. It opens with the title prince investigating a ghost of his murdered father.
This play by Norwegian author Henrik Ibsen centers on a woman who encourages her husband’s rival Lövborg to commit suicide after losing a manuscript on the domestic industries of Brabant.
This book by Haruki Murakami is titled for a Beatles song. In it, Toru Watanabe navigates through a relationship with Naoko and Midori.
Hamlet
Hedda Gabler
Norwegian Wood (or Noruwei no Mori) &lt;Chu&gt;
In a long poem, this author claims, “I tried each thing, only some were immortal and free.” For 10 points each:
Name this American poet who won the Pulitzer Prize for his collection Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror. He died at the age of 90 in September 2017.
Ashbery’s poem “Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape” centers on this classic comics and cartoon character, as well as his friends Olive and the Sea Hag. Ashbery’s poem repeatedly references this character’s favorite food, spinach.
Ashbery is often compared to this other poet who pulled on his Catholic beliefs in his poetry book Four Quartets. He considered whether the world would end with a “whimper” or a “bang” in his poem “The Hollow Men.”
John Ashbery (Writer’s note: Dulce Est Periculum.)
Popeye
T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot &lt;Cohen&gt;
In a short story by this author, Janet takes her dying father to the planetarium. For 10 points each:
Name this author of stories like “The Moons of Jupiter.” A disabled child performs an astoundingly beautiful piano recital in her “Dance of the Happy Shades.”
Alice Munro is an author from this country. Roch Carrier’s story “The Hockey Sweater” describes an upset boy from this country who receives a Maple Leafs sweater rather than one of star player Maurice Richards.
Another Canadian writer is poet and songwriter Leonard Cohen, best known for this song whose lyrics describe “a secret chord” and asserts that “love is not a victory march.”
Alice Munro (or Alice Ann Laidlaw)
Canada
“Hallelujah” &lt;Cohen&gt;
One work by this writer repeats the phrase “what?...who?...no!...she!...” five times. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish writer. His tragicomic and experimental plays include Act Without Words, Happy Days, and Endgame.
Beckett wrote primarily both in English and this other language, the original language of Waiting for Godot. Novels in this language include Penguin Island and The Man in the Iron Mask.
Beckett also wrote this play in which a woman’s mouth is the only visible thing on stage. It’s told in a slew of unsettling jumbled sentences, like ones about a woman who’s abandoned after being a premature birth.
Samuel (Barclay) Beckett
French (or le français)
Not I &lt;Cohen&gt;
This character listens to the song “Some of These Days” to calm himself after observing a bartender’s purple suspenders. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who realizes he cannot describe the roots of a chestnut tree under a park bench and later discovers his friend the Self-Taught Man is a pedophile.
Roquentin is affected by the title “sweetish sickness” in this philosophical novel by Jean-Paul Sartre.
This contemporary of Sartre wrote about Meursault, who similarly comes to terms with the nature of his existence after murdering an Arab in this man’s novel The Stranger.
Antoine Roquentin (accept either or both underlined parts)
Nausea
Albert Camus &lt;Yue&gt;
Haruki Murakami borrowed one of this author’s characters for the 2013 story “Samsa in Love.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of the novel in which the aforementioned Gregor Samsa appears, The Metamorphosis. This author’s distinct style led to his name being used as a byword for surreally bureaucratic.
This unfinished book by Kafka follows Josef K. as he seeks justice because “he knew he had done nothing wrong.” Unfortunately for K., he’s stabbed at the novel’s end “Like a dog!”
At one point, Josef K. is told this story in which a doorkeeper tells a man “I’m the lowliest of all the doormen.” A priest suggests to Josef K. that the doorkeeper may be the curious man rather than the one who claims to be the doorkeeper.
Franz Kafka
The Trial (or Der Process)
“Before the Law” &lt;Horton&gt;
One character in this novel takes the fictional drug Dylar, which makes her lose the ability to differentiate words and the things they represent. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the organization SIMUVAC intervenes upon an “airborne toxic event” of Nyodene D.
The protagonist of White Noise, Jack Gladney, is an academic who masks his fear of death by studying this man. In Catch-22, Captain Yossarian fights in a war against an army led by this German dictator.
This author created the fictional drug narkidrine in his short story “We Can Remember it for You Wholesale.” His other works include The Man in the High Castle and Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
White Noise
Adolf Hitler
Philip K. Dick &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things related to occurrences in cathedrals:
In a T. S. Eliot verse drama centering on the internal reflections of Archbishop Thomas Becket, this title event occurs via a group of knights. One of these events occurs “on the Orient Express” in an Agatha Christie book.
This author’s novel Conversation in the Cathedral portrayed life under the Odría dictatorship. This author also wrote about military cadets in The Time of the Hero.
Alejo Carpentier wrote about three orphans from this country in his novel Explosion in a Cathedral. A poem by this country’s native writer José Martí was adapted into the song “Guantanamera.”
a murder in the cathedral (accept the assassination of Thomas Becket or equivalents; accept The Murder in the Cathedral; Murder on the Orient Express)
Mario Vargas Llosa (be lenient and prompt on just Llosa, but inform them that the full surname in Spanish is Vargas Llosa)
Republic of Cuba (or República de Cuba) &lt;Yue&gt;
This poem was originally a letter to Sara Hutchinson, who happened to be the sister-in-law of the author’s friend William Wordsworth. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that describes its author’s depression and inability to write. It asks what can lift “the smothering weight from off my breast?”
“Dejection” is a poem by this Lake Poet, whose other members included his collaborator Wordsworth, though this man only contributed four poems to their co-written collection Lyrical Ballads.
On the other hand, one of those four poems was this epic tale about a sailor who kills an albatross and is subjected to hell at sea. It’s told by the title sailor to the awkwardly inconvenienced Wedding Guest.
“Dejection: An Ode”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner &lt;Kuang&gt;
Like many of its author’s works, this play is set in the Aran Islands. For 10 points each:
Name this play by John Millington Synge. By the end of this play, every single one of Maurya’s sons die.
In Riders to the Sea, this is how all of Maruya’s sons die. Maurya’s last surviving son, Bartley, dies at the end of the play by falling off his horse into the sea, quickly dying in this fashion.
Synge is most famous for a play about Christy Mahon, who is one of these characters “of the Western World.” That Synge play notoriously inspired riots on its premiere that were named after this term.
Riders to the Sea
drowning (accept word forms)
The Playboy of the Western World (accept Playboy riots) &lt;Cohen&gt;
William H. Macy and this playwright developed the acting technique of practical aesthetics. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright. His plays like Oleanna and Speed-the-Plow demonstrate his characteristic style of dialogue.
Mamet wrote this play that follows four Chicago real estate agents. It was adapted into a film with Alec Baldwin, who famously announces that “coffee's for closers.”
In another Mamet play, Don suspects a nickel he sold to a customer for $90 is actually worth much more and conspires to steal it back. That nickel has this animal on its reverse, opposite an American Indian’s profile.
David Mamet
Glengarry Glen Ross
buffalo (accept bison; accept American Buffalo) &lt;Cohen&gt;
At one point, the narrator of this book arrives on an island that seems to eat people. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Yann Martel. The title Indian boy is stranded on a raft with a tiger named Richard Parker, and it was made into a film by Ang Lee.
Life of Pi won the 2001 incarnation of this award given to works of English fiction. It was controversially widened from Commonwealth books to any English-language novel in 2014.
The 2017 prize was won by this author for Lincoln in the Bardo. This author delivered the commencement speech “Congratulations by the Way” and published the short story collection Tenth of December.
Life of Pi
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
George Saunders &lt;Horton&gt;
The staging for Lars von Trier’s film <em>Dogville</em> makes uses of this playwright’s concept of Epic Theater. For 10 points each:
Name this German playwright and poet, who wrote plays like The Good Person of Szechwan and Saint Joan of the Stockyards.
In this Brecht play, the title character enters pulling a cart with her children Eilif, Kattrin, and Swiss Cheese in tow and ends the play by singing a lullaby to Kattrin’s corpse.
Brecht collaborated with Kurt Weill to make a “Threepenny” one of these productions. Gaston Leroux first wrote a novel about a masked “phantom” of one of these productions.
Bertolt Brecht
Mother Courage and Her Children (or Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder)
opera &lt;Cohen&gt;
One novel by this author is a true-crime novel about a quadruple murder in the city of Holcomb, Kansas. For 10 points each:
Name this author of that novel, In Cold Blood. This author also created the socialite Holly Golightly in his book Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
Truman Capote was good friends with this other famous author, represented in Other Voices, Other Rooms as Idabel. This woman wrote about the stoutly heroic lawyer Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Controversially, this Harper Lee book was published in 2015 when she was nearly ninety. It was derived from an early draft of To Kill a Mockingbird that represented Atticus as a racist sympathizer.
Truman Capote (or Truman Streckfus Persons)
(Nelle) Harper Lee
Go Set a Watchman &lt;Cohen&gt;
In this novel, the protagonist briefly flirts with Frank Churchill, but realizes her attraction to Mr. Knightley by the book’s end. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the title girl who takes on the role of matchmaker after attending the wedding of Miss Taylor and Mister Weston.
Emma is a novel by this author of Sense and Sensibility and Pride and Prejudice.
In this other Jane Austen novel, the protagonist’s uncle Sir Thomas owns a plantation in Antigua. This novel follows the story of Fanny Price as she lives at the titular location.
Emma
Jane Austen
Mansfield Park &lt;Cohen&gt;
It doesn’t matter how you feel about Andover, because this bonus is all about Exeter: the Exeter Book, to be precise. For 10 points each:
The Exeter Book contains many examples of Old English verse using this technique, which was used with stresses to connect half-lines that formed each verse. Sibilance can be a specific usage of this technique.
The Exeter Book contains a poem titled for this technique, otherwise very uncommon in Old English verse, but pretty common in poetry in general. It can come in “schemes” like ABAB, or be used to make things like couplets.
The Exeter Book contains many examples of these challenges. In The Hobbit, Bilbo Baggins angers Gollum by besting him in some challenges of this sort.
alliteration (accept word forms; accept alliterative verse; prompt on consonance; do not accept or prompt on “assonance”)
rhyme (accept word forms)
riddles (accept word forms; prompt on “questions” or “puzzles” or “brainteasers” or any other reasonable equivalent, but the exact term riddle must be given) &lt;Cohen&gt;
You don’t have to go all the way to Napa Valley to find good wine. For 10 points each, answer some questions about wine in literature:
Montresor entombs Fortunato alive after luring him away with the promise of rare wine in this author’s story “The Cask of Amontillado.” This always Halloween appropriate author also wrote “The Fall of the House of Usher” and “The Raven.”
The speaker of this work declares that wilderness can be transformed into Paradise if he has “A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread—and Thou.” Edward Fitzgerald translated this series of quatrains originally written by Omar Khayyam.
The Palm Wine Drinkard is a novel by Amos Tutuola, an author from this country. Other authors from this country include Ken Saro-Wiwa, Teju Cole, and Ben Okri.
Edgar Allan Poe
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
The Federal Republic of Nigeria &lt;Cohen&gt;
In one novel by this author, Raphael Schlemilovtich is an antisemitic Jew who lives in Geneva and works for the French Gestapo. For 10 points each:
Name this author of La Place de l'étoile and co-writer of the film Lacombe, Lucien. He won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Literature.
In Modiano’s novel Missing Person, Guy Roland is a detective with this condition. In the novel, when his detective agency is closed, Guy goes on a search for his identity, partially remembers his past life, and travels to Bora Bora.
Another notable example of memory loss in literature is in this author’s The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana, in which a Milanese book dealer loses his memory due to stroke. This author also wrote The Name of the Rose and Foucault’s Pendulum.
(Jean) Patrick Modiano
amnesiac Syndrome
Umberto Eco &lt;Cohen&gt;
One story from this collection contrasts the peasants <em>Khor and Kalinych</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian short story collection. Its other stories include “Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District” and “Bezhin Lea.”
A Sportsman’s Sketches is a work by this author, who kills off his nihilist character Bazarov in his book Fathers and Sons.
Bazarov dies from this disease, which he contracts while treating a patient. This old school “fever” also killed Anne Frank, and shouldn't be confused with typhoid.
A Sportsman’s Sketches
Ivan Turgenev
typhus fever &lt;Kuang&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about <em>The Adventures of Saul Bellow</em>:
The title character of Saul Bellow’s novel Herzog is best known for spending his free time producing these things. Bartleby the Scrivener formerly worked in an office processing these things in a Melville short story.
Bellow opened his novel The Adventures of Augie March by stating, “I am an American, [this city] born.” Bellow taught at its university, and Upton Sinclair scrutinized this city’s meatpacking industry in his novel The Jungle.
Along with Bellow, this author is considered one of America’s great Jewish writers. He wrote the collection The Magic Barrel and the book The Fixer, though his “non-Jewish” work includes one about a man who plays for the New York Knights.
letters (accept dead letter office)
Chicago
Bernard Malamud (the unnamed book is The Natural) &lt;Yue&gt;
One work from this modern day country has alternative names like <em>A Mirror for the Romantic</em> and <em>The Story of the Stone</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose Four Great Classics include Journey to the West, The Water Margin, and Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
The last of the Four Great Classics is this work, which centers on a boy born with an ancient piece of jade in his mouth. It was written by Cao Xueqin [“tsao SHUEH cheen”] and completed by Gao E.
This character is the protagonist of The Dream of the Red Chamber, and the work centers on him and the decline of his family. He is engaged in a love triangle with Xue Baochai [“shweh bao-TCHAI”] and Lin Daiyu [“leen DIE-yoo”].
China (accept Zhongguo)
The Dream of the Red Chamber
Jia Biaoyu (accept either or both underlined parts) &lt;Owen&gt;
Paul de Man analyzed the line “How can we know the dancer from the dance?” from this man’s poem “Among School Children.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet. Some of the women in his life included his long-time unrequited love Maud Gonne, as well as his collaborator and peer Lady Gregory.
Yeats wrote a poem about seeing some wild ones of these birds at Lady Gregory’s home at Coole Park. Hans Christian Andersen’s classic tale of puberty describes a duckling discovering it’s one of these animals.
Yeats also wrote this metaphorical poem about a journey to the title place. It opens by declaring “That is no country for old men” and calls an “aged man” “but a paltry thing.”
W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats
swans
“Sailing to Byzantium” &lt;Kuang&gt;
A work by this man includes aptronyms like Mr. Gore and Mr. Severe. For 10 points each:
Name this former slave and prominent abolitionist who wrote an autobiography of his life and final escape from the South.
At one point in the Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, Douglass sees these things heading to a Northern port and delivers a stunning apostrophe about how they symbolize freedom. The Hesperus is one of these in a Longfellow poem.
This other novel begins, “Ships at a distance have every man’s wish on board.” The protagonist of this book variously marries Logan Killicks, Jodie Starks, and Tea Cake, the last of whom is mercy killed after contracting rabies.
Frederick Douglass
ships (or boats or any other reasonable equivalent)
Their Eyes Were Watching God (by Zora Neale Hurston) &lt;Cohen&gt;
This woman carried out her most famous action to make her husband Leofric lower taxes. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who legendarily rode through the town of Coventry naked on horseback, covered only in her long hair.
The only person to look at Lady Godiva during her ride was this infamous voyeur, whose name now describes any person who derives pleasure from observing other people in illicit activity.
Several centuries later, the Nazis ruthlessly bombed Coventry. According to myth, the British had discovered beforehand but chose not to warn Coventry to hide their discovery of the solution to this “code” using a device at Bletchley Park.
Lady Godiva
Peeping Tom
Enigma code &lt;Kuang&gt;
The author of this poem explained one figure in it as “that Divine and Unseen Who is always guiding us.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem likely written as an elegy for the author himself. It describes sailing into the open ocean and affirms a wish “to see my Pilot face to face.”
“Crossing the Bar” is a poem by this man, whose other life affirming works include “Ulysses.” His not so affirming works include “The Charge of the Light Brigade,” which describes a disastrous military affair.
Tennyson wrote his poem “Tears, Idle Tears” after visiting this location. Some lines written “a few miles above” this location were made by William Wordsworth.
“Crossing the Bar”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Tintern Abbey &lt;Kuang&gt;
In this author’s most famous work, the taste of a madeleine dipped in tea sets the narrator off on a long-winded bout of reminiscing and nostalgia. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote that work, In Search of Lost Time, often considered to be one of the world’s longest novels.
This other French writer and frenemy of Marcel Proust notably negatively reviewed In Search of Lost Time. His own works include Straight is the Gate and The Immoralist.
Proust and Gide both shared this characteristic. Oscar Wilde was jailed for violating morality laws targeting people with this characteristic.
(Valentin Louis Georges Eugène) Marcel Proust
André (Paul Guillaume) Gide
being gay (or any answer indicating homosexuality) &lt;Cohen&gt;
The Nazis burned a play by this writer which contained the phrase, “Where they have burned books, they will end in burning human beings.” For 10 points each:
Name this German satirist and poet known for Almansor, Atta Troll, and Die Lorelei.
Heine was a writer in the German variation of this movement, whose broader phenomenon centered on intense emotions and the accomplishments of the human individual. This movement opposed Rationalism.
This German helped synthesize the early Romantic movement Sturm und Drang. He wrote a closet drama about a man who makes a deal with Mephistopheles, his Faust.
Heinrich Heine
Romanticism (accept word forms)
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe [“GUR-tuh”] &lt;Jin&gt;
One character in this story is described as a “simple child of the earlier plains.” For 10 points each:
Name this Stephen Crane short story in which Scratchy Wilson chooses not to engage in a gun battle with the sheriff Jack Potter after seeing Potter’s newlywed.
Another colorfully titled Crane work is this novel about Henry Fleming’s progress throughout the Civil War before receiving the title emblem of valor.
Yet another colorfully titled Crane work is named for a “blue” one of these establishments. The literary group the Algonquin Round Table was named for their meeting place at one of these establishments.
“The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky”
The Red Badge of Courage
hotels (accept synonyms like inns or hostels, but not things like “restaurants”) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about incest in literature:
The fraternal twins Rahel and Estha commit incest at the end of this Arundhati Roy novel. This book details the downfall of an Indian family after Ammu sleeps with the Untouchable Velutha.
Several members of the Buendia family commit incest in this Colombian novel, prompting Ursula’s fear that a baby will be born with the tail of a pig. She’s proved right at the book’s end as the town of Macondo is whisked away in a whirlwind.
This author included several accounts of incest in his series A Song of Ice and Fire. Some of those relationships, like between twins Jaime and Cersei Lannister, are included in the TV adaptation Game of Thrones.
The God of Small Things
One Hundred Years of Solitude (or Cien Años de Soledad; Ed’s note: the author is Gabriel Garcia Marquez)
George R(aymond) R(ichard) Martin &lt;Cohen&gt;
This play begins with God sending Death to bring the title character in for his reckoning. For 10 points each:
Name this morality play, in which the title character manages to go to Heaven with the company of Good Deeds. The title character stands in for the generic person.
Everyman was originally written in this language. Other works in this language include the works of the Pearl Poet and many other Christian-themed morality and miracle plays.
Of course, you’re most likely to have seen religiously themed plays during this holiday thanks to the popular nativity play and pageant.
Everyman
Middle English (prompt on just “English”)
Christmas &lt;Kuang&gt;
This man wrote a book in the actual vernacular of the title outlaw in his <em>True History of the Kelly Gang</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Australian author. He described a bet involving the transporting of a glass church across the Outback in Oscar and Lucinda.
Carey’s novel Jack Maggs was inspired by the character of Abel Magwitch from this Charles Dickens book. This book’s protagonist Pip is let down after discovering escaped convict Magwitch is his benefactor.
Carey also wrote this magical realist book about the con man Herbert Badgery. Its title comes from an Australian colloquialism for con man, though it was little used before Carey revived it.
Peter Carey
Great Expectations
Illywhacker &lt;Kuang&gt;
This work opens with a thief stealing a man’s car after he has walked him back to his apartment. For 10 points each:
Name this Portuguese novel. It ends with the doctor’s wife in her home with several new companions when the title plague lifts as mysteriously as it arrived.
This English poet wrote the sonnet “On His Blindness” considering his failing sight. He also wrote a poem that attempts to “justify God’s ways to man,” and begins with the central characters organizing in the infernal city of Pandemonium.
This woman dedicated her book The Story of My Life to Alexander Graham Bell. That book recounts the moment Anne Sullivan taught this deaf-blind woman the word for water.
Blindness (or Ensaio sobre a cegueira; or Essay on Blindness; Ed’s note: the author is Jose Saramago)
John Milton (Ed’s note: the poem is Paradise Lost)
Helen Keller &lt;Horton&gt;
This character’s owner spends four days thinking of a name for him. For 10 points each:
Name this subpar horse, supposedly the great-grandson of El Cid’s horse, Babieca. His name is a rough pun basically conveying his elevation to heroic status.
Rocinante is the steed to this character. He gives up acts of chivalry after losing to the Knight of the White Moon in a work of the Spanish Golden Age.
In Don Quixote, despite Sancho Panza’s forewarning, Don Quixote rides into battle atop Rocinante attempting to “tilt” at these large inanimate objects, which Don Quixote mistakes for giants.
Rocinante
Don Quixote
windmills &lt;Cohen&gt;
This poet’s first well-received collection was the book <em>Spring and All</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 20th century Puerto-Rican-American poet associated closely associated with Modernism. His most notable poem describes an object “glazed with rain / water,” and he did double duty as a New Jersey doctor.
This is the aforementioned object that’s glazed with rainwater. It’s red, and presumably used to feed the nearby white chickens.
Williams loved to espouse this metric form he invented, in which the namesake metered element is split across multiple lines. It was linked to the forms of the triadic or stepped line.
William Carlos Williams
a wheelbarrow (accept “The Red Wheelbarrow”)
variable foot &lt;Cohen&gt;
This figure’s throne is usurped from him by King Miraz. For 10 points each:
Name this figure, who journeys with Eustace Scrubb and two of the Pevensie children aboard the Dawn Treader.
Prince Caspian retakes the throne with the assistance of the Pevensie children, and this figure. Centuries earlier, this figure had helped defeat a woman repeatedly feeds Edmund Pevensie turkish delights.
Aslan appeared as the heroic savior of this kingdom in The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, the first in the “Chronicles” written by C.S. Lewis and named for this kingdom.
Prince Caspian (or King Caspian X)
Aslan
Narnia &lt;Kuang&gt;
The narrator of this novel opens by saying that its purpose is to explore “human nature.” For 10 points each:
Name this comic novel in which Squire Allworthy returns home from a business trip to find an abandoned child sleeping in his bed. That child gets in a fight with Blifil and finds out that his mother is Bridget.
This playwright and author of works like Joseph Andrews and Shamela wrote Tom Jones.
Fielding was a prolific writer of works of this type, like The Tragedy of Tragedies and the aforementioned Shamela. Juvenal was a prominent writer in this style that’s used to comically mock a subject.
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
Henry Fielding
satire (accept word forms; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on parody) &lt;Cohen&gt;
One article arguing for these payments describes the struggle of the Contract Buyers League fighting for fair housing in Chicago. For 10 points each:
Give this term for compensatory payments in exchange for government inflicted hardships, such as with slavery in the US. None such payments have been made in the US yet.
This man wrote a 2014 article titled “The Case for Reparations.” He wrote a 2008 memoir called The Beautiful Struggle and began writing Black Panther comics for Marvel in 2016.
Coates is a national correspondent for this magazine founded in the 19th century by Francis Underwood and other noteworthy writers of the day. In June 2017, its feature article was Alex Tizon’s “My Family’s Slave.”
reparations (for slavery) (accept word forms)
Ta-Nehisi Coates
The Atlantic &lt;Cohen&gt;
One work from this collection begins, “Yes, call me by my pet name!” For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 44 love poems. Its opening poem describes loving someone “to the depth and breadth and height” and declares “I shall but love thee better after death.”
Sonnets from the Portuguese was written by Elizabeth Barrett, who was married to this man, the author of “My Last Duchess,” “Caliban Upon Setebos,” and the poetry collection Men and Women.
Robert Browning frequently wrote poems of this types, such as “My Last Duchess,” “Fra Lippo Lippi,” and “Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came.” Poems in this genre feature a single speaker, and it’s named after a similar technique in theater.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
Robert Browning
dramatic monologue (prompt on just monologue) &lt;Cohen&gt;
You shouldn’t need to make a deal with the devil to 30 this bonus, but you might have to. For 10 points each:
Satan appears in the ninth circle of hell affixed in ice in this epic poem written by Dante Alighieri. It’s the first entry in the Divine Comedy.
Stephen Benét wrote a story in which this famed American lawyer speaks so eloquently he gets his client out of a contract with the devil. The frog in “The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County” is named after this man.
In Mikhail Bulgakov’s The Master and Margarita, the Devil arrives in Moscow in the form of this “Professor,” accompanied by the black cat Behemoth. Later, this character hosts an infernal ball that Margarita attends.
the Inferno
Daniel Webster (accept “The Devil and Daniel Webster”)
Professor Woland &lt;Owen&gt;
Get your Ikea meatballs out and prepare for some questions on Swedish literature, for 10 points each:
This classic children’s character was created by Swedish writer Astrid Lindgren. This character has red pigtails, and her surname refers both to her choice item of clothing and her actual family surname.
This surrealist and expressionist Swedish playwright wrote both Miss Julie and The Ghost Sonata.
Strindberg also wrote this play about a daughter of the Vedic god Indra who descends to Earth. In this play, a wide case of symbolic characters show Agnes the the harsh realities of life as a human before she decides they’re to be pitied.
Pippi Longstocking (accept either or both names together)
(Johan) August Strindberg
A Dream Play &lt;Cohen&gt;
Works in this form include accompaniment from the Tayu as well as the musicians of the shamisen. For 10 points each:
Name this traditional form of Japanese theater, in which most of the actors wear black robes and hoods to blend into the background.
Bunraku theater is notable for its use of these traditional items in performances. Carlo Collodi first wrote a children’s novel about one of these items that becomes a donkey, is sold into the circus, and is swallowed by the Terrible Dogfish.
Bunraku dramatist Chikamatsu Monzaemon wrote two plays featuring this kind of event at Sonezaki and Amijima. Romeo mistakenly does this, shortly before Juliet wakes up and does it as well.
bunraku (or Ningyō jōruri)
puppets (or marionettes; yes, that’s Pinocchio being described)
love suicides (accept double suicide or shinjū; accept The Love Suicides at Sonezaki or The Love Suicides at Amijima) &lt;Cohen&gt;
One character in this novel descends into alcoholism after pining for the Hollywood star Rosemary. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that follows the exploits of the Divers. Nicole divorces her husband at its end.
Tender is the Night was written by this author, who also wrote works set in the partygoing early 20th century like The Last Tycoon and The Great Gatsby.
In a Fitzgerald short story titled for one of these gems “as Big as the Ritz,” John T. Unger discovers that the Washingtons own a mountain made entirely out of this stone.
Tender is the Night
F(rancis) Scott Fitzgerald
diamond &lt;Cohen&gt;
This character carries a Colt .44 and a copy of Don Quixote. For 10 points each:
Name this character who’s nicknamed the “Indiana General” after joining a Mexican army. He meets Harriet Winslow and is eventually killed by General Arroyo.
This Mexican author fictionalized the last days of Ambrose Bierce in his book The Old Gringo. He also detailed the last days of a Mexican revolutionary and tycoon in his novel The Death of Artemio Cruz.
Bierce was a veteran of this war. His story “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge” depicts a man hallucinating his escape back to his plantation as he is executed by hanging during this war.
Ambrose Bierce (accept the Old Gringo)
Carlos Fuentes Macias
American Civil War &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about a family whose members exerted huge influence over English literature:
This woman’s novels include Shirley and Villette, though she’s most famous for a novel in which Bertha Mason sets a fire in the house of Edward Rochester to the horror of the title governess.
This novel by Emily Bronte follows successive generations of the Earnshaw and Linton families. In it, Heathcliff and Catherine fall tempestuously in love.
Though Anne Bronte is the youngest and least canonical of the Bronte sisters, she’s most famous for writing this novel centering on Helen Graham and Gilbert Markham. It’s considered one of the first feminist novels.
Charlotte Bronte (prompt on just last name)
Wuthering Heights
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall &lt;Cohen&gt;
David Greenspan performed a run of this nearly six-hour play solo (!) in 2017. For 10 points each:
Name this play that its author Eugene O’Neill called a “four decker with nothing but ham.” This play makes extensive use of soliloquy.
This other O’Neill play centers on the patrons of Harry Hope’s bar, whose various “pipe dreams” are brutally given a dose of reality by Hickey the salesman after he arrives.
The title character of O’Neill’s play Anna Christie held this occupation before reuniting with her father on a coal barge. In Les Miserables, Fantine is forced to resort to taking this profession after losing a job at a factory, leading to her arrest by Javert.
Strange Interlude
The Iceman Cometh
prostitution (accept word forms; accept any well known euphemism for the profession) &lt;Kuang&gt;
2016 was a particularly good year for the Shakespeare retellings market. For 10 points each:
Name this character who asserts he “could be bounded in a nutshell and count [him]self a king of infinite space,” were it not for bad dreams. In a famous soliloquy, this character ponders “the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune” and being able “perchance to Dream.”
This author’s 2016 novel Nutshell retells the story of Hamlet from the point of view of an unborn child. He is better known for a novel that reveals Briony Tallis had written the apparently happy ending to that novel.
This author’s 2016 novel Hag-Seed retells the story of The Tempest from the point of view of Felix, a theater director. Her other works include Oryx and Crake and The Handmaid’s Tale.
Prince Hamlet of Denmark
Ian McEwan
Margaret Atwood &lt;Yue&gt;
This poem begins, “To him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that urges the listener to “go not, like the quarry slave at night” to the grave.
This man wrote the poems “To a Waterfowl” and “Midsummer,” as well as “Thanatopsis.” He wrote the last one when he was only 19.
Bryant was editor-in-chief of this city’s Evening Post for 49 years. Other media from this city include Bloomberg and the Times.
“Thanatopsis”
William Cullen Bryant
New York City, New York (accept NYC) &lt;Chu&gt;
In this book, Alden Pyle works to bring about the “Third Force” described in the work of York Harding. For 10 points each:
Name this book about war journalist Thomas Fowler, who helps assassinate Pyle by the book’s end. The local girl Phuong is repeatedly asked to choose between Fowler and Pyle in this book.
This author satirized war journalism in his book Scoop. More famously, he depicted Charles Ryder’s experiences with the Catholic Flyte family in the novel Brideshead Revisited.
P.G. Wodehouse wrote the comic book Psmith, Journalist, in addition to creating Bertie Wooster and this brilliantly refined valet, whose name came to symbolize the quintessential butler.
The Quiet American (by Graham Greene)
Evelyn Waugh
Reginald Jeeves (accept either or both names) &lt;Kuang&gt;
Later editions of this collection folded in the earlier collection <em>Drum-Taps</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of poetry, yet another edition of which included the surprisingly homoerotic Calamus poems. The preface to this collection includes the declaration that “The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem.”
Leaves of Grass is a work by this American poet. He wrote poems like “Song of Myself,” “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry,” and “Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking,” all included in Leaves of Grass.
This Whitman poem opens with its title before serenading, “The armies of those I love engirth me.” Its various sections meditate on the male and female form.
Leaves of Grass
Walt Whitman
“I Sing the Body Electric” &lt;Kuang&gt;
Johanna shoots a Secretary of State in this book to protest the ruling “buffalos.” For 10 points each:
Name this German novel. In it, the architect Robert Faehmel gathers in the Prince Heinrich Hotel every day at the same time to play the title game.
Billiards at Half-Past Nine was written by Heinrich Böll, who also wrote a book titled for this kind of figure. In a Stephen King novel, an ancient evil who terrorizes the town of Derry, Maine enjoys transforming into one of these people.
Like Heinrich Böll, this man was a post-WWII Nobel Prize winning German author. This man’s claim to fame was the Danzig Trilogy, in which he introduced the precocious three-year old Oskar Matzerath.
Billiards at Half-Past Nine (or Billard um halb zehn)
clown (accept The Clown or Ansichten eines Clowns; accept Pennywise the Dancing Clown)
Günter Grass &lt;Kuang&gt;
Alan Moore’s <em>Watchmen</em> is one work in this medium. For 10 points each:
Give this medium of storytelling, a longform version of a more popular medium. They often cover fantastical subjects like superheros, such as in Frank Miller’s The Dark Knight Returns.
This graphic novel by Art Spiegelman depicts Jews as the title animals. The bulk of its story is based on Spiegelman’s father’s experience in the Holocaust.
This man popularized the term graphic novel with his also Jewish-themed A Contract with God. This man also created the superhero the Spirit.
graphic novels (prompt on comics; prompt on just novels, I guess)
Maus
Will Eisner &lt;Kuang&gt;
A novice writer from this country created the amazing phrase “incoherent transactions” to describe theft. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Angus McDiarmid. Much more influential writers from this country include Walter Scott and Robert Burns.
This Walter Scott character was probably responsible for some incoherent transactions in his lifetime. Frank Osbaldistone meets this real life highlander and outlaw in the Scott novel titled for this man.
This Walter Scott novel is titled for an Edinburgh prison. In it, Jeanie Deans travels to London to obtain a pardon for her sister Effie.
Scotland (prompt on the “United Kingdom” or “Great Britain”)
Rob Roy (or Robert Roy MacGregor)
The Heart of Midlothian &lt;Kuang&gt;
One poem describes an “invisible procession going by” in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city that “you are losing” in the poem “The God Abandons Antony.” Lawrence Durrell wrote a quartet of books titled for this city.
This man wrote “The God Abandons Antony,” as well as about a city that suddenly finds itself without “a kind of solution” in his poem “Waiting for the Barbarians.”
Cavafy was a poet in this language. Nikos Kazantzakis created the character of Zorba in a novel in this language.
Alexandria, Egypt
Constantin Cavafy
Modern Greek &lt;Kuang&gt;
<em>Blade Runner 2049</em> quotes from this book using the line “cells interlinked within cells interlinked.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Vladimir Nabokov consisting of John Slade’s title 999-line poem and Charles Kinbote’s editorial comments on that poem. It opens with the line “I saw the shadow of the waxwing slain.”
Nabokov is more famous for this novel about Humbert Humbert, who lusts for the title underage “nymphet,” Dolores Haze.
Within Pale Fire, Kinbote claims that John Slade was inspired by the tale of Charles II’s exile from this fictional country, and was mistakenly killed by Gradus, an assassin from this country.
Pale Fire
Lolita
Zembla &lt;Kuang&gt;
This character is apprenticed to a shepherd and is later forced to sacrifice his favorite sheep. For 10 points each:
Name this character. He discovers an incredible talent for catching fish and falls in love with Mary Magdalene in a José Saramago book about his Gospel.
This author described Jesus as actually being two different personas in his book The Good Man Jesus and the Scoundrel Christ. 20 years after his His Dark Materials trilogy was published, this author returned to young adult fantasy in 2017 with the Book of Dust trilogy.
This Irish writer imagined the old age of Mary in his short novel The Testament of Mary. Ellis Lacey immigrates to New York in his 2009 book Brooklyn.
Jesus (accept Christ or any reasonably substitutable religious term; accept The Gospel According to Jesus Christ)
Philip Pullman
Colm Tóibín &lt;Yue&gt;
This author wrote about Elizabeth Bates and her husband Walter in the short story “Odour of Chrysanthemums.” For 10 points each:
Identify this British author probably better known for his works about the Brangwen family, which include The Rainbow. He also wrote Sons and Lovers.
Lawrence also wrote this novel in which the paralyzed Clifford is emotionally neglectful of his wife Constance. This novel’s sexually explicit descriptions have caused it to be banned often.
This character, who works as a gamekeeper, is the title romantic interest of Constance in Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
David Herbert Richards “D.H.” Lawrence
Lady Chatterley’s Lover
Oliver Mellors [accept either] &lt;CL&gt;
Its second edition was published with the addition of a poem from its author to the volume itself. For 10 points each:
Identify this collection which includes “The Four Monarchies” in addition to shorter works like “The Four Seasons” and “The Four Ages of Man.” This collection also contains an elegy to Sir Philip Sidney.
Some editions of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America include a poem addressed to this person. That poem addressed to this person opens with the line, “If ever two were one, then surely we.”
The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America is by this American poet of the colonial period who also penned “Verses upon the Burning of our House.”
The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America [accept The Tenth Muse, Lately Sprung Up in America, By a Gentlewoman in those parts; if people are ridiculous, accept The Tenth Muse, lately Sprung up in America, or Several Poems Compiled with Great Variety of Wit and Learning, Full of Delight, Wherein especially is Contained a Complete Discourse and Description of the Four Elements, Constitutions, Ages of Man, Seasons of the Year, together with an exact Epitome of the Four Monarchies, viz., The Assyrian, Persian, Grecian, Roman, Also a Dialogue between Old England and New, concerning the late troubles. With divers other pleasant and serious Poems, By a Gentlewoman in those parts; prompt on partial]
her husband [accept her Dear and Loving Husband; accept To My Dear and Loving Husband; accept but otherwise do not reveal Simon Bradstreet; accept clear knowledge equivalents; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal Mr. Bradstreet]
Anne Bradstreet [accept Anne Dudley] &lt;CL&gt;
The author of “I Have a White Rose to Tend” is from this country. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which is home to that poet, who wrote the lyrics for “Guantanamera” in the collection Versos Sencillos. That poet from this country is José Martí.
In 1889, Martí wrote about El centenario of this man. This man helped write his own farewell address in 1796 and was also the first President of the United States.
This other author was born in Europe but brought up in Cuba. He wrote The War of Time as well as The Kingdom of This World.
Republic of Cuba [accept República de Cuba]
George Washington
Alejo Carpentier (y Valmont) [prompt on Valmont] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some works by Nikolai Gogol.
In this Gogol short story, Akaky goes to a “Person of Consequence” to recover the title article of clothing, which was made by Petrovich. Marten fur was too expensive, so the title article of clothing in this story has a cat fur collar.
This Gogol novel follows Chichikov’s schemes to buy the title things, which are serfs that only exist on paper, against whom he plans to take out a huge loan. Later in this novel, he tries to forge the will of Khlobuyev’s aunt.
A short story collection by Gogol which was heavily influenced by Ukrainian culture is titled for Evenings on a Farm Near this place. The beekeeper Rudy Panko appears in that collection’s preface.
“The Overcoat” [accept “Shinel”; accept “The Cloak”; do not accept or prompt on “The Coat”]
Dead Souls [accept The Wanderings of Chichikov; accept The Wanderings of Chichikov, or Dead Souls. Poema; accept Myórtvyjye dúshi]
Dikanka [accept Dikanki; accept Dynkanka; accept Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka; accept Vechera na khutore bliz Dikanki] &lt;CL&gt;
This poet relays the advice, “Give crowns and pounds and guineas / But not your heart away” in “When I Was One-and-Twenty.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who also included “The Lent Lily” and “Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now” in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
This poem featured in A Shropshire Lad recalls, “The time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the market-place,” before lamenting, “[R]ound that early-laurelled head / Will flock to see the strengthless dead.”
Another Housman poem, “Terence, this is stupid stuff,” follows the first line, which makes up the title, by saying that “you eat” this thing “fast enough.” The next lines mention “the rate you drink your beer.”
A(lfred) E(dward) Housman
“To an Athlete Dying Young”
your victuals (“VITT-ulls”) [accept his victuals or Terence’s victuals] &lt;CL&gt;
This author wrote a famous memoir, <em>Surprised by Joy</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this British philosophical writer who wrote frequently about his religious faith in books such as Mere Christianity. He is better known for writing the popular children’s fantasy series, The Chronicles of Narnia.
This is the specific term used to describe the genre in which Lewis worked when he wrote books such as Mere Christianity. This term broadly describes attempts to defend Christianity using evidence-based reasoning, and it takes is name from a Greek word meaning “a speech in defense”.
This man was often called the “prince of paradox”, and was perhaps the most notable Catholic apologist of the 20th century. Like Lewis, he is perhaps better known for his fiction, which often featured the priest-detective Father Brown.
Clive Staples Lewis
Christian apologetics [accept apologia]
Gilbert Keith Chesterton &lt;LT&gt;
The proceeds from one of this author’s collections, <em>Tala</em>, went to orphans who lost their families in the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points each:
Identify this Spanish language poet whose other collections include Desolación and one inspired by the suicide of Romelio Ureta.
Ureta’s death inspired Mistral to write a work named for examples of this poetic form of Death. This poetic form traditionally consists of fourteen lines of iambic pentameter.
Mistral also wrote an “Intimate” one of these things. These things comprise the text of The Color Purple.
Gabriela Mistral [accept Lucila Godoy y Alcayaga]
sonnets [accept sonetos]
letters [accept epistles and word forms; prompt on notes, messages, etc.] &lt;CL&gt;
Under the dictatorship of Ribiera, this country is relatively stable. For 10 points each:
Identify this fictional country, where the silver-mining city of Sulaco provided the setting for Nostromo, a work by the author of The Secret Agent. Juan Gabriel Vásquez wrote about the Secret History of this country.
The creator of Costaguana also wrote this novella about a journey on the Congo River. In this work, Marlow hears a dying Kurtz whisper, “The horror! The horror!”
The Secret Agent, Nostromo, and Heart of Darkness are all works by this Polish-British author of Lord Jim.
Costaguana [prompt on Occidental Province; prompt on Colombia]
Heart of Darkness
Joseph Conrad [accept Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] &lt;CL&gt;
In this work, Dioneo always has to go last, so he is thought by some scholars to express the thoughts of the author. For 10 points each:
Identify this collection of one hundred stories told by ten people fleeing the Black Plague. Stories in this collection include one in which a man cooks his pet falcon and feeds it to the mother of a boy wanted it as a gift.
The Decameron is a work of this Italian author of On Famous Women.
In the last story from The Decameron, a marquis tests his low-born wife’s loyalty by pretending to murder their children and eventually divorce her in favor of a twelve-year-old who happens to actually be their daughter. Name either the marquis or the wife.
The Decamerone [accept but otherwise do not reveal The Book of Prince Galehaut]
Giovanni Boccaccio
Griselda or Gualtieri [prompt on Marquis of Saluzzo] &lt;CL&gt;
In one work by this author, Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville investigate deaths at a Benedictine monastery. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian author of The Island of the Day Before and the aforementioned The Name of the Rose.
Another work by Eco is titled for a man with this last name’s Pendulum. The author of Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison System and The History of Sexuality also had this last name.
Eco also wrote a work about a cemetery named for this city. This city is also the capital of the country in which the author of The Joke was born.
Umberto Eco
(Paul-)Michel Foucault
Prague [accept Praha; accept Prag] &lt;CL&gt;
This author wrote the autobiographical essay <em>Sun and Steel</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this Japanese author who described Shigekuni Honda in his series of four novels including Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn, and The Decay of the Angel. That is the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
In this Mishima novel, Mizoguchi is surprised to find Father Dosen with a geisha, but befriends the clubfooted Kashiwagi before eventually burning down the title structure.
In another work, Mishima wrote about the Confessions of one of these accessories. A poem by Paul Laurence Dunbar is named for one of these objects which “grins and lies.”
Yukio Mishima [accept either underlined portion; accept Kimitake Hiraoka]
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion [accept Kinkaku-ji]
mask &lt;CL&gt;
One contemporary example of these texts is split into sections with the prefixes “macro,” “micro,” and “pro,” and uses British English despite being published in the United States. For 10 points each:
What name is given to these reference works which attempt to summarize large fields of knowledge? The Britannica type of these works was famously sold door-to-door.
This editor, along with his partner Jean le Rond d’Alembert (“doll-em-BEAR”), organized writers like Voltaire and Rousseau to create an influential French-language encyclopedia in the 18th century.
The collaborative encyclopedia Wikipedia takes its prefix from a word for “quick” in this language. In the Encyclopedia Britannica, an article on this language can be found in volume 5 of the Micropedia, which goes from “Freon” to “Holderlin.”
encyclopedias
Denis Diderot (“DI-duh-row”)
Hawaiian &lt;CC&gt;
In this poem, the author relates, “They send me to eat in the kitchen when company comes.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the narrator says, “I am the darker brother,” but “Tomorrow, I’ll be at the table… Nobody’ll dare say to me, ‘Eat in the kitchen’ then.”
“I, Too” was written by this African-American poet of the Harlem Renaissance. In his poem “Mother to Son,” the narrator says, “Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.”
In Hughes’ poem “Harlem,” he asks, “What happens to [this thing]?... Does it stink like rotten meat?... Maybe it sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode?”
“I, Too” [accept “I, Too, Sing America”]
Langston Hughes
a dream deferred [prompt on partial] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the works of John Keats.
In this poem, Keats wrote that “‘Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all / Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.” He called the title object of this poem a “foster-child of silence and slow time.”
Keats compared reading the works of this ancient writer to Hernan Cortez looking over the Pacific Ocean for the first time in a sonnet titled for his experience “First Looking into Chapman’s [translations of this figure’s works]”.
In this Keats poem, Porphyro watches Madeline sleep on the title night. When she wakes, she tells Porphyro that if he leaves, he leaves behind “A dove forlorn and lost with sick unprunèd wing.”
“Ode on a Grecian Urn” [do not accept “Ode to a Grecian Urn”]
Homer
“The Eve of St. Agnes” &lt;RY&gt;
A shotgun owned by one member of this family may have been stolen by Daniel. For 10 points each:
Identify this family which includes Gina, Royce, Victor, Bam, and a woman who runs toward a helicopter at the end of the novel in which they appear, Maureen.
The Smales family appears in this Nadine Gordimer novel named for their servant, who shelters them in his home village during a fictional civil war. Characters in this book often ride in a yellow pickup truck called a bakkie.
Like J. M. Coetzee and Athol Fugard, Nadine Gordimer is a writer from this country which includes cities like Cape Town.
Smales family [accept Smaleses]
July’s People
Republic of South Africa [accept RSA] &lt;CL&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: Teams must supply both answers to each part, but order does not matter. Two heads are better than one! For 10 points each, all or nothing, identify these famous literary duos.
These title “star-cross’d lovers” from feuding families, the Montagues and the Capulets, kill themselves at the end of the Shakespeare play in which they appear when one of them thinks the other is dead due to a sleeping potion.
This father-and-son duo names a pentalogy of books. One of these characters builds the Abbey of Theleme which follows the rule “Do What Thou Wilt.”
This pair is investigated by Gabriel John Utterson after he sees one of them beat Danvers Carew to death. These characters represent the good and evil halves of a single personality.
Romeo and Juliet
Gargantua and Pantagruel [accept The Life of Gargantua and of Pantagruel; accept La vie de Gargantua et de Pantagruel]
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde [accept The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde] &lt;RY/CL&gt;
In this play, it is revealed that a baby was adopted by Polybus from a shepherd on Mount Cithaeron. For 10 points each:
Identify this tragedy in which the title character blinds himself after learning he fulfilled a prophecy by sleeping with his mother and killing his father. At the end of this play, the chorus says to “Look upon that last day always.”
Oedipus Rex and the two plays which follow it among the Theban plays, Oedipus at Colonus and Antigone, are works by this Greek tragedian. There are a total of seven extant tragedies by this writer.
Sophocles also wrote this play about Odysseus’ attempts to win the services of an archer with an injured foot, which is set in Lemnos. It ends with a deus ex machina, as Heracles appears and promises to cure the title character.
Oedipus Rex [accept Oedipus Tyrannus; accept Oedipus the King; prompt on Oedipus; do not accept or prompt on “Oedipus at Colonus”]
Sophocles
Philoctetes &lt;CL&gt;
One character in this novel hires the private investigator Chilon Chilonides. For 10 points each:
Identify this pro-Christian novel in which Marcus Vinicius falls in love with Calina, who is usually known as Ligia. Early in this novel, Acte promises to protect Ligia from the emperor’s lust.
Quo Vadis was written by Henryk Sienkiewicz (“shi-EN-kee-wreets”), an author from this nation. Alan Furst described this country in the novel The Spies of Warsaw.
This Jewish author’s most famous work is partly set in Poland. That work is Night, and this author also wrote The Trial of God.
Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero [accept Quo vadis. Powieść z czasów Nerona; grudgingly accept Where Are You Going? or Whither Goest Thou?; prompt on subtitle]
Republic of Poland [accept Congress Poland; prompt on Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or Soviet Union]
Elie Wiesel [accept Eliezer Wiesel; accept Elyezer Vizel] &lt;CL/LT&gt;
In this novel, William, the heir to Kellynch, first notices the protagonist on a trip through Lyme Regis. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel which ends when Anne Elliot and Commander Frederick Wentworth finally renew their engagement and are wed. That engagement was originally broken due to the efforts of Sir Walter and Lady Russell.
This other novel by the author of Persuasion features the Dashwood sisters, Elinor and Marianne, who eventually marry Edward Ferrars and Colonel Brandon, respectively.
Persuasion and Sense and Sensibility are both works by this British author of Mansfield Park, Northanger Abbey, and Pride and Prejudice.
Persuasion
Sense and Sensibility
Jane Austen &lt;CL&gt;
According to Joseph Asagai, one member of this family “mutilates” herself by straightening her hair. For 10 points each:
Identify this family which includes Lena, Beneatha, Walter, Ruth, and Travis, all of whom live in a small South Side apartment in Chicago before moving to an all-white neighborhood.
The Youngers must decide what to do with a ten thousand dollar life insurance check in this play. In this play, Willy and Bobo steal the money Walter plans to invest in a liquor store.
A Raisin in the Sun is a work by this American playwright behind The Drinking Gourd and The Sign in Sidney Brustein’s Window.
Younger family [accept Youngers]
A Raisin in the Sun
Lorraine (Vivian) Hansberry &lt;CL&gt;
One novel set in this city revolves around Zohra and is entitled <em>Miramar</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city which titles a Quartet consisting of the novels Justine, Balthazar, Mountolive, and Clea. This city was famous for a lighthouse.
The Alexandria Quartet is a tetralogy written by this British ex-pat. This author also wrote The Avignon Quintet, which includes Monsieur, or The Prince of Darkness.
This other Egyptian city is the setting for a trilogy by Naguib Mahfouz which includes Palace Walk. Mona Prince’s My Name Is Revolution was inspired by events in this city’s Tahrir Square.
Alexandria
Lawrence (George) Durrell
Cairo &lt;CL&gt;
One member of this family marries the insurance company manager Hugo Weinschenk. For 10 points each:
Identify this family, four generations of which appear in a 1901 novel inspired by its author’s own. This family of Lübeck merchants includes Antonie, Clara, and Thomas.
In this novella by the author of Buddenbrooks, Gustav von Aschenbach becomes obsessed with the boy Tadzio and repeatedly runs into red-headed strangers.
This German author of Buddenbrooks and Death in Venice also retold Genesis stories in Joseph and His Brothers and described Hans Castorp’s journey to visit Joachim Ziemssen in The Magic Mountain.
the Buddenbrook family [accept Buddenbrooks; prompt on Johann’s family]
Death in Venice [accept Der Tod in Venedig]
(Paul) Thomas Mann &lt;CL&gt;
Samuel Clemens named himself Mark Twain for his writing career, and then proceeded to name some of the best known characters in American literature. For 10 points each, identify some of them.
This Twain character’s Adventures are described in one book, and in another, he spies some body snatchers and searches for buried treasure with his best friend, Tom Sawyer.
In The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Huck escapes down the Mississippi River with a slave with this first name. “The Tall Soldier” in The Red Badge of Courage also has this first name, followed by the last name Conklin.
This Twain character is the protagonist of a book in which a head injury causes him to wake up in 6th century England, A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court.
Huckleberry Finn [accept either]
Jim [do not accept or prompt on “James” or “Jimmy”]
Hank Morgan [accept either; accept The Boss; do not accept or prompt on “The Yankee” because it was mentioned in the question] &lt;CL&gt;
This poem was inspired by an account of the Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the speaker says, “Cannon to right of them / Cannon to left of them / Cannon in front of them / Volley’d and thunder’d.”
“The Charge of the Light Brigade” is by this British author. He wrote, “I hope to see my Pilot face to face” in the poem “Crossing the Bar,” and also wrote the poem “Ulysses.”
Tennyson’s “The Charge of the Light Brigade” opens by repeating this three-word phrase three times. After that, he wrote, “[O]nward / All in the valley of Death / Rode the six hundred.”
“The Charge of the Light Brigade”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson [accept Alfred Tennyson; accept First Baron Tennyson]
half a league &lt;RY&gt;
A work in this form by Jack Kerouac begins with the line, “Snow in my shoe.” For 10 points each:
Identify this Japanese poetic form, which especially in English is traditionally characterized by a line of five syllables followed by a line of seven syllables followed by another line of five syllables.
Works by this master of the haiku include an example which reads, “The old pond; / A frog jumps in — / The sound of the water.” This 17th century Japanese writer also compiled the collection The Seashell Game.
Bashō also wrote this work of haibun, a travel diary documenting a journey he took on foot through Japan with his friend Kawai Sora. This work posits “every day is a journey, and the journey itself home.”
haiku
Matsuo Bashō [accept either; accept Matsuo Kinsaku; accept Matsuo Chūemon Munefusa]
The Narrow Road to the Deep North [accept The Narrow Road to the Interior; accept The Narrow Road of the Interior; accept Oku no Hosomichi] &lt;CL&gt;
In one story by this author, a supposed Bible salesman who goes by the name Manley Pointer steals Hulga Hopewell’s prosthetic leg after removing her glasses. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Good Country People and a work in which Julian’s racist mother takes a bus to the community center, Everything That Rises Must Converge.
Flannery O’Connor was a major figure in this 20th century American literary movement which included Erskine Caldwell and Walker Percy. A shop in a William Gibson novel is named for “nightmare folk art” and this movement.
Another Southern Gothic writer, Carson McCullers, wrote this novel about the deaf mute John Singer and his friends, including the mentally disabled Spiros Antonapoulos, along with Mick Kelly, Copeland, Blount, and Biff.
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
Southern Gothic [prompt on partial]
The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter &lt;CL&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: Put emphasis on the word “literary” in the first part. While in prison, this character reads the Bible because he enjoys the violent aspects of Christianity. For 10 points each:
Name this literary character who loves “Lovely Ludwig Van” and attacks another character because of his response to a woman’s performance of an operatic passage.
Alex appears in this novel, in which he often hangs out at the Korova Milk Bar with his friends, who are called “droogs” in the language Nadsat.
A Clockwork Orange is a novel by this British author of the Enderby Quartet.
Alex [or Alexander the Large; do not accept “Alexander DeLarge” or “Alex DeLarge” or “Alex Burgess,” as these do not refer to the literary character]
A Clockwork Orange
(John) Anthony Burgess (Wilson) &lt;CL&gt;
This character insists, in vain, that Mr. Summers didn’t give Bill enough time. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who ends up holding a black spot, and then tells the onlookers that “It isn’t fair, it isn’t right,” just before she dies.
Tessie’s drawing of the black spot causes her neighbors to stone her to death in this short story. Old Man Warner thinks the young people who want to end this story’s title event are a “pack of crazy fools.”
“The Lottery” is a short story by this American author of “The Haunting of Hill House” and “We Have Always Lived in the Castle.”
Tessie Hutchinson [prompt on Mrs. Hutchinson]
“The Lottery”
Shirley (Hardie) Jackson &lt;CL&gt;
. This vehicle was named after one owned by Robert Fulton, and its captain describes it as “very like a cigar in shape.” For 10 points each:
Name this watercraft that is thought to be a narwhal or a sea monster in one work. Its home port is an island that is named Lincoln Island by Cyrus Smith and his crewmates.
The Nautilus appears in The Mysterious Island as well as this work. In this novel, Captain Nemo keeps Aronnax, Ned Land, and Conseil onboard the Nautilus, which is later attacked by a pack of squid.
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea was written by this man, who also wrote Around the World in Eighty Days and Journey to the Center of the Earth.
The Nautilus
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea: An Underwater Tour of the World [accept Vingt mille lieues sous les mers: Tour du monde sous-marin]
Jules Gabriel Verne &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, identify the home countries of some Spanish language authors.
This country is home to the poet behind “The Heights of Macchu Picchu,” part of the Canto General [hen-ur-ALL], and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, Pablo Neruda. Its capital is Santiago.
This country is home to Manuel Puig, who wrote The Kiss of the Spider Woman, and Julio Cortázar, who included “House Taken Over” in Blow-up and Other Stories and also wrote Hopscotch.
Miguel Ángel (“AHN-hell”) Asturias, author of El Señor Presidente and Men of Maize, also wrote about the legends of this nation, his home country, in one work.
Republic of Chile
Argentina [or the Argentine Republic]
Republic of Guatemala &lt;CL&gt;
According to the stage directions for this play, at one point, some Tragedians “impossibly” hide in barrels. For 10 points each:
Name this play, an absurdist tragicomedy about the fate of two minor characters from a Shakespeare work.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is a work by this writer, who was born in Czechoslovakia. Other works by this playwright include The Real Thing and Arcadia.
In Arcadia, this real life poet behind “The Prisoner of Chillon” is an unseen presence in Thomasina Coverly’s house. Bernard theorizes that this character killed Ezra Chater in a duel.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
Tom Stoppard [accept Tomáš Straussler]
Lord Byron [accept either underlined portion for George Gordon Byron; accept either underlined portion for George Gordon Noel; accept Sixth Baron Byron] &lt;CL&gt;
According to many scholars, this play is a member of the “rural trilogy.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Adela hangs herself because she believes her mother has shot Pepe “el Romano.” This play also features Adela’s sisters, like Angustias, but does not have any male characters.
The House of Bernarda Alba is a work of this Spanish writer. He also wrote about Leonardo Felix and the Groom killing each other after the former runs off with the bride in the play Blood Wedding.
The first play by Garcia Lorca is named for the Evil Spell of this type of animal. Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote about one of these animals in “The Artist of the Beautiful” and another of them is featured at the end of an Eric Carle book.
The House of Bernarda Alba [accept La Casa de Bernarda Alba; prompt on a drama of women in the villages of Spain; prompt on drama de mujeres en los pueblos de España]
Federico Garcia Lorca [prompt on partial]
butterfly [accept mariposa] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about a certain metafictional author.
This 20th century American author wrote wartime books such as Going After Cacciato and If I Die in a Combat Zone, Box Me Up and Ship Me Home.
Going After Cacciato is mentioned in the story “Notes” of this other book by O’Brien. This collection follows Lieutenant Jimmy Cross, who is burdened by his unrequited love for Martha, and other soldiers in the Vietnam War.
One story in The Things They Carried is titled for someone of this profession of whom Curt Lemon is terrified. In a Frank Norris book, McTeague has this profession and falls in love with Trina Sieppe while working on her teeth.
Tim O’Brien [accept William Timothy O’Brien]
The Things They Carried
army dentist [prompt on army doctor] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
This work features the famous “episode of the madeleine.” For 10 points each:
Name this seven volume work which includes sections like Sodom and Gomorrah and Swann’s Way. C. K. Scott Moncrieff’s and Terence Kilmartin’s English translations of this novel used incorrect translations of the title.
In Search of Lost Time is the most famous work of this French author whose novel Jean Santeuil (“zhon son-toy”) was left unfinished.
In In Search of Lost Time, Marcel meets this character while visiting Balbec with his grandmother, and later, she becomes his mistress. This character eventually returns to Touraine and dies in a horseriding accident.
In Search of Lost Time [accept Remembrance of Things Past; accept À la recherche du temps perdu; do not accept or prompt on a French translation of “Remembrance of Things Past,” as this was a mis-translation into English]
(Valentine Louis Georges Eugène) Marcel Proust
Albertine Simonet [accept either] &lt;CL&gt;
Shakespeare wrote a lot of plays. In doing so, he also created a lot of evil people. For 10 points each, name these villains who appear in his works.
This title villain, the Thane of Glamis, Thane of Cawdor, then King of Scotland, murders Duncan and arranges the murders of almost everyone in Macduff’s castle, all in an effort to gain more power.
This villain in Othello works to demote Michael Cassio and then convinces Othello that Cassio is having an affair with Desdemona rather than Bianca, leading to the former’s demise. He murders Emilia when she reveals his schemes.
This villain in Measure for Measure rules Vienna in Duke Vincentio’s absence and attempts to stop everyone in the city from having sex. However, he then tries to coerce Isabella into having sex with him to save Claudio’s life.
Lord Macbeth [do not accept or prompt on “Lady Macbeth”]
Iago
Angelo [prompt on the Deputy] &lt;CL&gt;
Gerald Graff has argued that this movement was the intellectual successor of Romanticism. For 10 points each:
Name this broad philosophical and literary movement that developed in the late 19th Europe and the United States to reflect major social and economic changes in society brought on by technological change. “Post” is appended before this term to describe a current mode of thinking.
This conservative Anglo-American intellectual criticized what he saw as a slide towards paganism and amorality in the modernist movement in his lecture series, After Strange Gods. This famous poet also wrote the 1919 literary theory essay, Tradition and the Individual Talent.
Eliot earned his bachelor’s degree in the study of this language. Chanakya famously wrote the political science treatise Arthashastra in this ancient language.
modernism [accept word forms]
Thomas Stearns Eliot
Sanskrit &lt;LT&gt;
Mike compares this character to Circe, who “turns men into swine.” For 10 points each:
Identify this woman who has been divorced twice and whose numerous affairs include one with Robert Cohn and one with Romero. In a taxi, this character confesses, “Oh, darling, I’ve been so miserable.”
Lady Brett Ashley is in love with the expatriate Jake Barnes in this novel. At the end of this novel, she decides to reunite with her fiancé, Mike Campbell.
The Sun Also Rises is a work of this American author of The Old Man and the Sea, A Farewell to Arms, and For Whom the Bell Tolls.
Lady Brett Ashley [or Brett, Lady Ashley; prompt on Ashley]
The Sun Also Rises
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway &lt;CL&gt;
In one work with this title, Hugo Pludek becomes the head of the Central Inauguration and Liquidation Committee. For 10 points each:
Provide this title of that play by Václav Havel. This is also the title of a short story in which Laura Sheridan comes to terms with her own mortality after the death of the working class Mr. Scott.
The aforementioned short story “The Garden Party” is a work of this modernist author. Her other works include The Aloe and “How Pearl Button Was Kidnapped.”
Katherine Mansfield is from this island country with capital at Wellington.
“The Garden Party” [accept “Zahradní slavnost”]
Katherine Mansfield [accept Kathleen Mansfield Murry; accept Kathleen Mansfield Beauchamp]
New Zealand [accept Aotearoa] &lt;CL&gt;
This character says she “always want[s] to know the things one shouldn’t do” “so as to choose.” For 10 points each:
Identify this character who rejects the marriage proposals of Lord Warburton and Caspar Goodwood before finally wedding Gilbert Osmond, an ex-pat she meets in Florence.
Isabel Archer is the protagonist of The Portrait of a Lady, a novel by this author who also wrote What Maisie Knew and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James also wrote this novella, in which the title character is spotted sitting with Giovanelli in the Colosseum by Winterbourne before dying, presumably of Roman fever.
Isabel Archer [accept either; prompt on a Lady]
Henry James [prompt on James]
Daisy Miller &lt;CL&gt;
In this novel, Allie Cone is killed by a Bollywood star. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel in which a hijacked plane containing Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha explodes over the English Channel. Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwā against the author of this novel, urging Muslims to kill him.
The Satanic Verses is a book by this author. This author also wrote about Saleem Sinai, who was born at the exact moment of Indian independence, in Midnight’s Children.
Rushdie also wrote about Shalimar, who is nicknamed for this specific profession in one novel due to his tightrope walking ability.
The Satanic Verses
(Sir Ahmad) Salman Rushdie
clown &lt;CL&gt;
. In this work, one character studies the life of a Transylvania College student, Cass Mastern. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel focusing on the career of a populist politician. When the narrator blackmails Judge Irwin in this work, he commits suicide, and it is revealed that he was the narrator’s father.
This author won a Pulitzer Prize for All the King’s Men and also wrote At Heaven’s Gate and a book of interviews with civil rights leaders called Who Speaks for the Negro?
All the King’s Men takes place in this state where John Kennedy Toole set A Confederacy of Dunces, in which Ignatius J. Reilly lives in New Orleans.
All the King’s Men
Robert Penn Warren
Louisiana &lt;CL&gt;
In this book, Vernon Roscoe helps to instigate the Teapot Dome scandal. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel about James Arnold Ross Jr., otherwise known as “Bunny.” Tensions arise in this book when Bunny begins to sympathize with socialists who work with the title commodity.
In this other book by the author of Oil!, Jurgis Rudkus becomes socialist after labor conditions in Chicago cause disaster for his family. In this book, Phil Connor rapes Ona, and Stanislovas is eaten alive by rats.
Oil! and The Jungle were written by this journalist and author behind King Coal.
Oil!
The Jungle [do not accept or prompt on “The Jungle Book”]
Upton (Beall) Sinclair Jr. [do not accept or prompt on “Sinclair Lewis”] &lt;CL&gt;
The title thing of this poem “gave us kisses and the fruit of the vine” and is “A tried friend to the end.” For 10 points each:
Identify this poem addressed to a “beautiful spark of divinity, / Daughter of Elysium.” This poem was set to music in the last movement of a certain ninth symphony.
This play by the author of “Ode to Joy,” part of the Sturm und Drang movement, explores the relationship between brothers Karl and Franz Moor. In this play, one character tries to create a state of anarchy in the Bohemian forest.
“Ode to Joy” and The Robbers are by this German author of The Wallenstein Trilogy.
“Ode to Joy” [accept “An die Freude”]
The Robbers [accept Die Raüber]
(Johann Christian) Friedrich (von) Schiller &lt;CL&gt;
This character is frustrated by his inability to locate Cassy and Emmeline. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who enters the novel in which he appears after St. Clare is stabbed outside a tavern. An “-ism” named for this American character has come to signify extreme cruelty and he may be an allegory for Pontius Pilate.
Simon Legree is one slaveowner of the title character in this abolitionist novel, which also features Eliza and Harry’s escape to Canada across a partially frozen river.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin is a work of this American author of Dred, A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp and The Minister’s Wooing.
Simon Legree [accept either]
Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly [prompt on partial or on Life Among the Lowly; do not accept on prompt on “The Key to Uncle Tom’s Cabin”]
Harriet Beecher Stowe &lt;CL&gt;
This man performs a nuptial dance at the Fancy Dress Ball. For 10 points each:
Name this man who goes through an “Entrance Not for Everybody” and stabs Hermine in the Magic Theatre. Throughout the novel in which he appears, this man is torn between his spiritual and animalistic sides.
Harry Haller’s Records (For Madmen Only) makes up the main text of this 1927 novel. Besides Hermine, other characters in this novel include Maria and the saxophonist Pablo.
Steppenwolf is a work by this author of The Glass Bead Game and Siddhartha.
Harry Haller [accept either; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal the Steppenwolf]
Der Steppenwolf
Herman Hesse &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name these things about Canadian literature.
This Canadian author’s novel The Blind Assassin won her the 2000 Booker Prize. Offred (“of-FRED”) is a woman used strictly for reproductive purposes in the Republic of Gilead in her novel The Handmaid’s Tale.
In this novel by Canadian Yann Martel, Piscine Patel survives for 277 days on a lifeboat in the Pacific Ocean with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. It ends with Patel recounting his possibly fictitious adventure to two officials.
This Canadian author won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2013 for her short story collections. This author’s works include Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage, as well as The View from Castle Rock and Dear Life.
Margaret (Eleanor) Atwood
The Life of Pi
Alice Munro [accept Alice Laidlaw] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name these things about literature which features everyone’s favorite insect.
This poem describes “Breaths . . . gathering firm.” In this poem, narrator is unable to “see to see” after noticing a “Blue -- uncertain -- stumbling Buzz.”
This book by William Golding follows a group of British boys stranded on an island who, under the leadership of Ralph, descend to primitivity and accidentally kill Simon because they confuse him with “the beast.”
This author of The Flies also wrote the story “The Wall” and a novel in which a historian named Antoine Roquentin believes outside objects and circumstances interfere with his identity, causing him to feel the title ailment.
“I heard a Fly buzz -- when I died” [prompt on partial]
Lord of the Flies
Jean Paul Sartre &lt;CL&gt;
This work deals with the protagonist’s obsession with magic. For 10 points each:
Name this only surviving complete Ancient Roman novel, a work of Apuleius. Its protagonist, Lucius, joins the cult of the goddess Isis after accidentally turning himself into the title creature.
This epic poem also from Ancient Rome deals with its namesake character’s flight following the Fall of Troy, and his travels to Italy. In this work, Dido commits suicide.
Both The Golden Ass and The Aeneid were written in this language. It was the official language spoken by the Ancient Romans, and is still used by the Catholic Church.
The Golden Ass [accept The Metamorphoses; accept Asinus Aureus]
The Aeneid [accept Aeneis]
Latin &lt;LT&gt;
Fielding and Godbole miss the train headed for this location. For 10 points each:
Identify this place, where Adela’s broken field glasses are first found. Miss Derek leaves this place with no explanation, shortly after which another character is arrested.
Dr. Aziz is accused of assaulting Adela in the Marabar Caves in this novel. Other characters in this novel, which takes place in a certain Asian country, include Mrs. Moore and Ronny Heaslop.
A Passage to India is a work of this British author of Howards End and A Room with a View.
Marabar Caves [prompt on caves; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal British India or Chandrapore]
A Passage to India
E(dward) M(organ) Forster &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, identify some things about <em>The Count of Monte Cristo</em>.
The Count of Monte Cristo is a novel by this French author of The Three Musketeers.
This title protagonist of The Count of Monte Cristo is imprisoned in the Château d’If at the beginning of the plot, but then returns to Paris to seek revenge on his enemies, Villefort, Danglars, and Fernand Mondego.
Before his imprisonment, Dantès is engaged to a character with this name, but then she weds Fernand. Another character with this name is one of three stampeders to adopt Buck in Jack London’s The Call of the Wild.
Alexandre Dumas, pere [or Alexandre Dumas the Elder or Alexandre Dumas Sr.; accept Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie]
Edmond Dantès [accept either; accept Abbé Busoni; accept Zatarra; accept Lord Wilmore; accept Sinbad the Sailor; accept Monsieur Zaccone; accept Number 34; accept the Maltese Sailor]
Mercedes [accept Mercédès Mondego; accept Mercédès Herrera] &lt;CL&gt;
He celebrated himself, and sung himself. For 10 points each, complete these iconic Whitman titles.
Whitman’s best known collection contains fifty-two poems, including “Song of Myself,” and is named for Leaves of this plant. A Carl Sandburg poem named for this plant tells the reader to “pile the bodies high.”
Another poem in Leaves of Grass describes Whitman’s experience crossing a river in a ferry from this place.
In another Whitman poem, the speaker claims to do this action in the first line before adding, “The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them.”
grass
Brooklyn [prompt on the East River; prompt on New York City, I suppose; do not accept on prompt on “Manhattan”]
sing the body electric [accept word forms; prompt on partial] &lt;CL&gt;
A man with this first name is permitted to stay in his parish after receiving a note from James thanking him for a wreath. For 10 points each:
Identify this first name of the protagonist of Cry, the Beloved Country, a reverend who travels from Ndotsheni to Johannesburg. Another character with this first name is the protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Cry, the Beloved Country is a work of this South African author of Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful.
This other work by Alan Paton is about Pieter van Vlaanderen, a white police officer who breaks South African law by having an affair with a black woman.
Stephen [accept Stephen Kumalo; accept Stephen Dedalus]
Alan (Stewart) Paton
Too Late the Phalarope &lt;CL&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: In the third part, make it clear that <em>Massacre at</em> is part of the title of a play using air quotes or another clear method. Believe it or not, Shakespeare was not the only writer of the Elizabethan period. For 10 points each, identify some plays by his contemporary, Christopher Marlowe.
In this Marlowe play, the title character, Barabas (“bear-AH-bus”), is boiled alive in a cauldron. Earlier in this play, his daughter Abigail is horrified by his murderous deeds, so she runs away and converts to Christianity.
This other Marlowe play focuses on a man who makes a pact with the devil, after which the words “Homo, fuge!” (“HO-mo FOO-gay”) appear on his arm. A character in this play calls Helen “the face that launch’d a thousand ships.”
Marlowe also wrote a play about a Massacre at this city. That play which takes place in this city shares a name with a work by Nathaniel Lee which inspired a song by Henry Purcell called “Thy genius, lo.”
The Jew of Malta
The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on “Faust”]
Paris &lt;CL&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: Somehow make it clear that <em>A New Translation</em> in the first part is part of a title using air quotes or another clear method. A 1999 translation of this poem won the Whitbread Book Award. For 10 points each:
Identify this poem. A New Translation of this epic poem has a faceless man on the cover and describes one of its antagonists as a “monstrous hell-bride, brooding on her wrongs.”
Beowulf: A New Translation is a work of this author of the poem “Digging.” He also described “great slime kings” and frogspawn in “Death of a Naturalist.”
Seamus Heaney is from this country which James Joyce described in his collection Dubliners.
Beowulf
Seamus (Justin) Heaney
(Republic of) Ireland [or Éire; or Airlann] &lt;CL&gt;
This play is split into three acts: “Fun and Games,” “Walpurgisnacht” (“vall-PER-guiss-noct”), and “The Exorcism.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Martha and George host Nick and Honey at a late night dinner party. Characters in this play participate in games like “Get the Guests,” and Martha answers this play’s title question with “I am.”
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is a work by this American playwright of The Zoo Story and The Goat, or Who is Sylvia?
In this other Albee play, which is named for a painting genre, Nancy and Charlie talk to the human-sized lizards Leslie and Sarah. In the opening of this play, Charlie says he believes an airplane will crash into a dune.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
Seascape &lt;CL&gt;
This character is often referred to by the French title “messire.” For 10 points each:
Identify this character who is usually considered to really be Satan but appears in Moscow disguised as a professor. This character exposes the greed of the bourgeoisie at the Variety Theatre in a 1967 novel from the U.S.S.R.
Woland appears in this novel by Mikhail Bulgakov. This novel takes place partly in ancient Jerusalem, and is named for two characters who die after drinking poisoned wine but spend eternity in what is probably Limbo.
Behemoth, one of Woland’s companions in The Master and Margarita, is one of these animals. The Warriors series is about these animals, and one of them created by Lewis Carroll is named for Cheshire.
Woland [prompt on Voland or Faland; prompt on the Devil]
The Master and Margarita [accept Master i Margarita]
cats [accept Felis catus; accept domestic felines, house cats, and equivalents; accept specific breeds generously; prompt on felines] &lt;CL&gt;
In a 2007 novel by Donald McCaig, Isaiah Watling sets fire to this place. For 10 points each:
Identify this place named after an archaeological site in Ireland and more famous for its appearance in a 1936 novel. Residents of this plantation in the South include the Irish immigrant Gerald and his wife Ellen.
Tara is a fictional plantation in Gone with the Wind, a novel which features this female protagonist. The love interests of this onetime bride of Charles Hamilton include Ashley Wilkes and Rhett Butler.
Gone with the Wind is a work of this author of Lost Laysen and The Big Four.
Tara [prompt the house or farm of the O’Haras or equivalents; prompt on Clayton County; prompt on Georgia; do not accept or prompt on “Jonesboro”]
Scarlett O’Hara [prompt on O’Hara]
Margaret Mitchell &lt;CL&gt;
A proposed etymology for this genre is from the words “village” and “singing.” For 10 points each:
Name this category of drama typically contrasted with tragedy. Aristotle’s lost second book of the Poetics addresses it.
This arguably most famous Greek comedy playwright described the construction of Cloudcuckooland in The Birds and Dionysius’s venturing into the underworld in The Frogs.
A stock character in Greek and Roman comedy is the “miles gloriosus,” an extremely “proud” one of these characters. Pyrgopolynices is one of these people in Plautus’s play Miles [“mee-lays”] Gloriosus.
comedy
Aristophanes
soldier (do not accept synonyms, since the translation is pretty canonical)
This novel was written while its author was in Honduras on the run from Texas authorities trying to arrest him for embezzlement. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of stories. It is set in the Republic of Anchuria, which served as the basis for the modern term “banana republic.”
In this short story by the author of Cabbages and Kings, Jim sells his gold watch to buy a set of “combs,” and Della sell her hair to buy a new watch chain.
Cabbages and Kings and “The Gift of the Magi” are both works by this pseudonymous American writer fond of twist endings.
Cabbages and Kings
“The Gift of the Magi”
O. Henry (or William Sydney Porter)
This author included a symbol from <em>Tristram Shandy</em> at the beginning of his book <em>The Wild Ass’s Skin</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this French author who included The Wild Ass’s Skin, as well as Old Goriot and Cousin Bette in his extremely ambitious series The Human Comedy.
Upon reading The Wild Ass’s Skin, Eveline Hańska sent Balzac a letter signed with this name, leading to a correspondence and their eventual marriage. In an Albert Camus novel with this title, Meursault suffers an existential crisis before shooting the Arab.
In the book S/Z, Roland Barthes [“bart”] analyzed five codes used by Balzac in this novella. The title character of this novella falls in love with Zambinella before discovering she’s actually a male castrato.
Honoré de Balzac
“The Stranger” (or L'Étrangère; accept L’Étranger)
Sarrasine
Only five of the poems in this collection were contributed by one of its authors, while the other wrote the rest. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of English Romantic poetry. It contains the poems Tintern Abbey and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Lyrical Ballads was a combination effort between William Wordsworth and this other poet, who wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. A “visitor from Porlock” interrupted his composition of the poem Kubla Khan.
Another of Coleridge’s poems for Lyrical Ballads is a “conversation poem” about this bird. It usually makes the noise “jug” in poetry, and T.S. Eliot wrote about “Sweeney Among [these birds].”
Lyrical Ballads, with a Few Other Poems
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
nightingale
This Italian became the first poet laureate since antiquity. For 10 points each:
Name this poet whose “Scattered Rhymes,” or Canzoniere, are full of poems about his dejected love for Laura.
The majority of the poems in Il Canzoniere are of this 14-line form. Petrarch’s namesake version of this poetic form consists of an octet and a sestet, and Shakespeare wrote a whole bunch of these in iambic pentameter.
A key component of the sonnet is the thematic “turn,” usually known by this Italian term. In the Petrarchan sonnet, this occurs at the end of the octet.
Petrarch (or Francesco Petrarca)
sonnets (accept Petrarchan sonnet)
volta
This poet wrote a dramatic monologue from the perspective of a cartoon character in “Daffy Duck in Hollywood.” For 10 points each:
Name this American poet. He cribbed from Parmigianino to title his collection Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
Ashbery is sometimes called a Confessional poet. By far the best known Confessional was this person married to Ted Hughes, who might have addressed him in a poem that calls the title figure a “man in black with a Meinkampf look.”
Another Confessional was John Berryman, whose best known collection is titled after “Songs” of these phenomena. Langston Hughes’s poem “Harlem” ask what happens when one of them is “deferred,” and whether they “dry up, like a raisin in the sun.”
John (Lawrence) Ashbery
Sylvia Plath (the poem is “Daddy”)
dreams
This writer became known for his “topsy-turvy” style of verse. For 10 points each:
Name this librettist whose most famous collaboration produced phrases like “Never? Well hardly ever” and “short, sharp shock” in The Mikado and H.M.S. Pinafore.
Gilbert wrote several comedies grouped and named for these creatures. J.M. Barrie created several of these creatures who reside on Neverland, including one named Tinker Bell.
Gilbert also wrote a comic play about these characters “in Three Tabloids.” In another play, these characters meet the Player and the Tragedians.
Sir (W)illiam S(chwenck) Gilbert (prompt on Gilbert and Sullivan)
fairy (or fairies; accept fairy comedies)
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (prompt on partial answer; prompt on courtiers or Hamlet characters or Hamlet’s friends, but ultimately require the two names; accept Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead)
Reading can take you places. For 10 points each:
Historians have questioned the truthfulness of this Italian’s stories about visiting China, which were collected in a book by Rustichello da Pisa.
This author described coasting around America with a pickup truck and his pet poodle in Travels with Charley. This California native titled his book Cannery Row after a Monterrey street.
This redundantly named English author described boating up the Thames in his comic travelogue Three Men in a Boat (To Say Nothing of the Dog).
Marco Polo
John (Ernst) Steinbeck, Jr.
Jerome K(lapka) Jerome
One character with this profession was introduced with his boss Bertie Wooster in the story “Extricating Young Gussie.” For 10 points each:
Name this dignified service profession, the occupation of P.G. Wodehouse’s Jeeves.
A butler named Stevens serves possible Nazi sympathizer Lord Darlington in The Remains of the Day, a book by this British author of Japanese ancestry. He also wrote about cloning in Never Let Me Go.
In The Remains of the Day, Lord Darlington puts Stevens in the unenviable position of providing this service for Reginald Cardinal, which Reginald’s father David has failed to do for the past five years. Stevens also fails.
butler (or valet; prompt on “servant”)
Kazuo Ishiguro
teaching him about sex (or teaching him the birds and the bees; or teaching him the facts of life; or giving him the talk; or anything similar, really; prompt on teaching)
<em>Notes on Prosody</em> is a book describing the differences in rhythm between these two languages. For 10 points each:
First, name these two languages in which Vladimir Nabokov excelled. Nabokov romanized the untranslatable sadness-connotating word “poshlost” in one of these languages into “poshlust” in the other.
Nabokov discussed poshlost in his book about this Russian author. This writer also wrote Taras Bulba and a book in which Chichikov schemes to get rich by purchasing the title items.
Nabokov also translated this book with his son Dmitri. This Mikhail Lermontov book contains the character of Grigory Pechorin and a sub-novella titled Princess Mary.
Russian and English (prompt if they only give one; Ed’s note: accept английский [angliyskiy] and русский [russkiy])
Nikolai Gogol (Ed’s note: the latter book is Dead Souls)
A Hero of Our Time (or Geroy nashego vremeni)
The 2016 Pulitzer winner <em>The Sympathizer</em> is narrated by a man from this country. For 10 points each:
Name this modern day country. Paul Berlin narrates a novel in which a character abandons his war squad and decides to walk from this country to France.
Going After Cacciato is a novel by this writer, most of whose books derive from his experience in the Vietnam War. The title to his most famous book references both concrete items like dog tags and abstract ones like guilt.
O’Brien both wrote and narrates this sort-of-fictional story collection. In one story, Kiowa drowns in a sewage field, and in another Mary Anne Bell is absorbed into a Green Beret troop.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
William Timothy “Tim” O’Brien
The Things They Carried
At the end of this novel, its unnamed protagonist tries to kill himself by drowning but calls out for help after realizing that he really, really wants a cigarette. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Tayeb Salih. Its narrative centers on Mustafa Sa’eed, a once-precocious student who returns to Sudan after murdering his wife Jean Morris.
Around the same time as the publication of Season of Migration to the North, this other author wrote the religiously-themed Children of Gebelawi, as well as a trilogy titled for an Egyptian city and starting with Palace Walk.
Salih’s Season of Migration to the North and Mahfouz’ Cairo Trilogy were both originally written in this language.
Season of Migration to the North (note: no leading article!)
Naguib Mahfouz
Arabic
This character creates a paramilitary group called the Minute Men. For 10 points each:
Name this literary character, a U.S. Senator who wins the presidential election on a populist platform offering a return to traditional values. He then establishes a totalitarian Fascist state, eventually leading to total civil war.
“Buzz” Windrip is a character in this writer’s book It Can’t Happen Here. This writer also wrote the novel Babbitt, about a realtor who lives in the fictional city of Zenith, Winnemac.
After Babbitt, Sinclair Lewis’s most famous novel is probably this one about Carol Milford, who moves to the small town of Gopher Prairie and is stymied at every attempt to liberalize it.
Berzelius “Buzz” Windrip (accept any or any combination of names)
(Harry) Sinclair Lewis
Main Street
Where are the bonuses of yesteryear? For 10 points each:
First, name this form of narrative poetry that originated in medieval France and was usually accompanied by music. They were often sung by minstrels who described folklore-ish figures like Robin Hood.
The quote “Where are the snows of yesteryear?” comes from Dante Rosetti’s translation of this medieval poet’s work The Ballad of Dead Ladies. He also wrote “The Ballad of the Hanged” while awaiting execution, probably as a result of a career of thievery.
Panurge tells a story about Villon tricking a friar to this François Rabelais character. This character is called the “King of the Dipsodes” in the title of a book that was then followed by a book about this character’s father Gargantua.
ballads
François Villon
Pantagruel
As Joyce Kilmer (sort of) wrote, “I think that I shall never see / A bonus lovely as a tree.” For 10 points each:
This Edith Wharton novel ends with the title character disastrously attempting to commit suicide with Mattie by ramming their sled into an elm tree.
A Tree Grows In [this place] in the title of a Betty Smith novel. Adelle Waldman’s The Love Affairs of Nathaniel P follows a writer living in this neighborhood.
This author described a writer moving to Maine in The Country of the Pointed Firs. She also wrote A White Heron and A Country Doctor.
Ethan Frome
Brooklyn (prompt on New York City or NYC)
Sarah Orne Jewett
In this novel, George Emerson throws a set of photographs into a river after some guy gets shanked and inconsiderately bleeds all over them. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by E.M. Forster in which Lucy Honeychurch’s whirlwind tour around Europe features proposals from Cecil Vyse and a final elopement with George to Florence.
One of the many references made in A Room with a View to other literary works occurs when Cecil quotes this Brit’s poem “The Princess.” This man also wrote “Ulysses” and “The Lady of Shalott.”
In the novel, Cecil annoyingly interrupts this activity by reading from a book written by Joseph Emery Prank. Some pieces of equipment for this activity are insultingly sent to the title character of Shakespeare’s Henry V.
A Room with a View
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
tennis (accept tennis balls)
Susanna Clarke’s endnote-heavy book <em>Jonathan Strange &amp; Mr Norell</em> contains a “Learned Society” of characters with this profession. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. One of these figures “of Lublin” titles an Isaac Bashevis Singer novel.
This author’s Mario and the Magician parallels the rise of fascism with the influence of the hypnotist Cipolla. This German described Hans Canstorp’s stay at a sanatorium in Magic Mountain.
Salim runs a shop visited by the magician Zabeth in this Trinidadian author’s novel A Bend in the River.
magician (do not accept synonyms)
Thomas Mann
Sir V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) Naipaul
Marjane Satrapi wrote a memoir about her youth in this country in the graphic novel <em>Persepolis</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Its native language Persian, or Farsi, was used to write its national epic the Shahnameh by Ferdowsi.
Azar Nafisi wrote a memoir titled after reading this book “in Tehran.” Humbert Humbert serves as unreliable narrator in this American novel while lusting after the title youthful nymphet.
This masterpiece by Sadegh Hedayat uses modernist techniques and fevered dream writing. It’s probably the most notable Persian novel of the 20th century, and if it helps, it’s titled after a nocturnal bird.
Islamic Republic of Iran
Lolita
The Blind Owl
This writer’s namesake verse form consists of eight lines and then an alexandrine. For 10 points each:
Name this inventor of a namesake “stanza” and the author of an epic poem about the Redcrosse Knight and Sir Britomart.
The Spenserian stanza as used in The Fairy Queene uses this rhythm. This extremely common rhythm is named for the unstressed-stressed foot making it up, and has nothing to do with the number of such feet.
The Spenserian stanza was also used by this poet in his poem Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage. This poet names a type of brooding hero and wrote works like “Don Juan” and “She Walks In Beauty.”
Edmund Spenser
iambic (accept iamb; do not accept or prompt on over-answers, like “iambic pentameter”)
Lord Byron (or George Gordon Byron)
For 10 points each, swish a three-pointer by naming these American authors who referenced basketball:
This author’s first novel Rabbit, Run centers on a former high school basketball star. This author then wrote sequels like Rabbit Redux and Rabbit is Rich.
Among the various sports the Swede excels at in this author’s novel American Pastoral is basketball. This Jewish-American writer described a protracted breakup in the novella Goodbye, Columbus.
This author’s A Prayer for Owen Meany ends with Owen discarding a live grenade by emulating a basketball dunk. He also wrote The World According to Garp.
John Updike
Philip Roth
John Irving
[<em>NOTE to moderator: see second part and make sure you don’t accidentally reveal it before reading it!</em>] In the opening to this novel, the narrator describes how Rossini’s <em>The Thieving Magpie</em> is the perfect length for cooking spaghetti. For 10 points each:
Name this book whose first section centers on a man’s search for a missing cat. It’s second and third sections are titled after “the Prophesying Bird” and “the Bird-Catcher Man.”
Cooking spaghetti, missing cats, deep wells, and incest are all recurring motifs in this Japanese author’s novels. His other books include Norwegian Wood and 1Q84.
Murakami’s style is often compared to that of this European writer, for whom Murakami named a character “on the Shore.” This author’s books The Trial and The Metamorphosis examine bureaucracy and alienation.
The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle (or Nejimakitori Kuronikuru)
Haruki Murakami (Ed’s note:@spaghetmurakami is a Twitter account solely consisting of Murakamai quotes about spaghetti)
Franz Kafka (accept Kafka On the Shore)
One poet from this modern day country wondered about the history between two people in the poem “Love at First Sight.” For 10 points each:
Name this Eastern European nation, the home of Wislawa Szymborska. A more famous author from this country, Henryk Sienkiewicz, set his book Quo Vadis in ancient Rome.
This other Polish author’s poem “A Song on the End of the World” was translated by his son Anthony. He also wrote about Stalinism in the non-fiction book The Captive Mind.
In his memoir Night, Elie Wiesel recalled being marched to and imprisoned in this Nazi concentration camp in Poland.
Republic of Poland (or Rzeczpospolita Polska)
Czeslaw Milosz
Auschwitz
Śūdraka’s play <em>The Little Clay Cart</em> was written in this language. For 10 points each:
Name this language prominently used by Kālidāsa, who used it to write the plays The Recognition of Shakuntala and The Cloud Messenger.
Sanskrit was also used to write this ancient Indian epic traditionally ascribed to Valmiki. In it, the title Indian prince ventures to rescue Sita from the demon Ravana.
An award for Sanskrit literature is still given annually by this “Akademi,” along with for 23 other Indian languages. In 2015, dozens of writers returned their awards to this “National Academy of Letters” as part of a political protest.
Sanskrit (or sanskrtam)
the Ramayana
Sahitya Akademi (prompt on Indian National Academy of Letters)
Ariosto’s epic about this character “Furioso” is a continuation of Boiardo’s epic of this character “in Love.” For 10 points each:
Name this knight under Charlemagne. In a different French epic poem, he blows a horn so hard that his temples burst while defending Ronceveaux pass.
Orlando falls ridiculously in love with this pagan princess, and even fights his friend Rinaldo over her.
Angelica spurns Orlando, and Astolpho has to venture to this location to find Orlando’s lost wits. In a Jules Verne novel, a cannon is used to propel men from Earth to this nearby celestial body.
Orlando (or Roland; accept Orlando Furioso or Orlando Innamorato; accept The Song of Roland or La Chanson de Roland)
Angelica
the moon (or La Luna)
The narrator of one novel by this author compares the heads of two whale carcasses to the philosophies of Locke and Kant. For 10 points each:
Name this author who opened his Moby Dick with the immortal line “Call me Ishmael.”
The title sailor of this Melville novel is hanged after he fatally stabs John Claggart, the master-of-arms of the HMS Bellipotent.
The plot of this Melville novella centers around Amasa Delano’s time aboard the San Dominick. Delano believes the ship is captained by the title character but in reality, it has been overtaken by a slave revolt.
Herman Melville
Billy Budd, Sailor
Benito Cereno
For 10 points each, name some things related to the Globe Theatre. No, not that one:
The Gielgud Theatre was named the Globe Theatre from 1909 to 1997, after the theatre where most of this Elizabethan playwright’s works were performed. This playwright’s Henry V calls the Globe a “wooden O.”
The first production of the new Globe was a play written by this man’s mother. This man won the Nobel for Literature in part for his A History of the English-Speaking Peoples, and another of his works has the line “Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.”
As of September 2016, the now Gielgud Theatre has been running a play based on this book by Mark Haddon. This book is narrated by Christopher, a boy implied to have Aspergers.
William Shakespeare
Winston Churchill
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
This poet’s death was fictionalized in Pat Barker’s novel <em>The Ghost Road</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this British poet whose most famous poem describes an “ecstasy of fumbling” and rages against “the old Lie” propagated by an ancient Horace poem.
Owen wrote “Dulce et Decorum Est” about a gas attack during this conflict. Owen’s close friend Siegfried Sassoon also fought in this conflict.
Owen’s work is typically contrasted with that of the more patriotic Rupert Brooke, especially this Brooke sonnet that pleads to remember that “there’s some corner of a foreign field / That is for ever England.”
Wilfred Owen
World War I (or WWI or the Great War)
“The Soldier”
The main characters in this play, a judge and country girl, are symbolically named Adam and Eve. For 10 points each:
Name this most famous play by the German Heinrich von Kleist. It centers on a trial concerning who broke the title object.
The Broken Jug was first staged by this titan of German literature, whose own contributions include the verse drama Faust and the novel The Sorrow of Young Werther.
Goethe also frequently staged plays by this longtime playwright friend, who wrote about the split between the Moor brothers in The Robbers. In his most famous play, the title character fails to salute Gessler’s cap.
The Broken Jug
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe [“GUR-tuh”]
Friedrich Schiller (Ed’s note: the unnamed play is William Tell)
In this book’s opening chapter, thugs break into a house as one of the protagonists reads <em>National Geographic</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this book which compares the life of the cook Biju in New York City with that of the Westernized Sai in her native country. This novel won the 2006 Man Booker Prize for its author, Kiran Desai.
Kiran Desai is a writer from this populous Asian country, also the birthplace of Salman Rushdie and Vikram Seth.
This Calcutta-born writer wrote the Gitanjali, or Song Offerings, and was the author of both India and Bangladesh’s national anthems.
The Inheritance of Loss
Republic of India (or Bharat Ganarajya)
Rabindranath Tagore (or Ravindranatha Thakura; prompt on Gurudev)
Raymond Chandler’s Philip Marlowe and Mickey Spillane’s Mike Hammer were examples of the stock character that named this category of fiction. For 10 points each:
Name this genre of fiction exemplified by the “hardboiled” variety of its namesake character.
The hardboiled detective Sam Spade searches for the title figurine after meeting the femme fatale Brigid O’Shaughnessy in this Dashiell Hammett novel.
Detective fiction is itself a subgenre of crime fiction--this hardboiled crime fiction author’s books The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity were both later adapted into noir films.
detective fiction (prompt on crime fiction; prompt on mystery fiction; accept synonyms for detective like private investigator)
The Maltese Falcon
James M(allahan) Cain
At one point, the speaker of this poem calls the song he hears a “Chorus Hymeneal / Or triumphal chant.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem describing the speaker’s experiencing hearing the song of the title bird. It begins “Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!”
“To a Skylark” is a poem by this Romantic poet, whose other poems include “Ode to the West Wind,” and one about a crumbling statue titled “Ozymandias.”
Shelley also wrote this long poem about the title fairy, who descends to earth and shows Ianthe fantastic visions of the future and a utopia.
“To a Skylark” (do not accept or prompt on “Ode to a Skylark”)
Percy Bysshe Shelley
Queen Mab; A Philosophical Poem; With Notes
Name some things related to people attempting to make their fortune in California, for 10 points each:
Bunny and Dad drill for the title resource in Upton Sinclair’s novel Oil!. This much better known Sinclair novel centers on Jurgis Rudkus, who works at extremely unscrupulous meatpacking plants.
Producer Monroe Stahr ascends through Hollywood in this author’s The Love of the Last Tycoon. He also wrote This Side of Paradise.
Several gold miners raise Cherokee Sal’s child as their own in this story, only for the title child to later die in a flood.
The Jungle (Ed’s note: I sure hope you read that exclamation mark with gusto)
F(rancis) Scott Fitzgerald
“The Luck of Roaring Camp” (Ed’s note: the story is by Bret Harte)
One chapter in this work describes Utsushemi discarding her robe like a cicada shell. For 10 points each:
Name this early work written by Lady Murasaki about the title prince.
The Tale of Genji is often considered the first modern novel. Another work that may lay claim to the title is this Roman one in which Lucius turns into the title animal while trying to copy a witch’s spell.
In general, the early novel is similar to this other category of fictitious narrative, as evidenced by the word for novel in languages like French and Italian. An ancient Chinese work is usually titled for one of these works “of the Three Kingdoms.”
The Tale of Genji (or Genji monogatari)
The Golden Ass (or Asinus aureus)
romance (prompt on roman, I guess)
This character’s birth name is Agnes, the daughter of Paquette Guybertaut. For 10 points each:
Name this beautiful Roma girl. Claude Frollo falls violently in love with her, setting off a series of events that lead to Quasimodo lying in her grave with her body.
Quasimodo is the title deformed bell ringer of this Victor Hugo novel. In a much sadder version than the movie, Esmeralda is taken from the title cathedral and hanged.
Quasimodo’s intentions are more or less good, but the also deformed title character of this Par Lagerkvist novel is pretty much evil. This book ends with the title character being imprisoned by his master, an Italian prince.
Esmeralda
The Hunchback of Notre Dame (or Notre-Dame de Paris)
The Dwarf (or Dvärgen)
This character’s father receives a pension as the “most original moralist in England.” For 10 points each:
Name this flower girl who’s trained by Henry Higgins on a bet into losing her Cockney accent.
Eliza appears in Pygmalion, a play by this Irish playwright whose other works include Arms and the Man and Major Barbara.
At a climactic moment in the play, Eliza throws these items at Professor Higgins in anger after he ignores and essentially discards her after successfully winning the bet.
Eliza Doolittle (accept either or both names)
George Bernard Shaw
slippers (prompt on something like shoes)
Sections like “Touch Me, Life, Not Softly” appear in this poet’s collection <em>And Still I Rise</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet whose first collection was entitled Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Diiie.
Angelou is best known for this autobiography, which takes its title from a Paul Laurence Dunbar poem. It describes Angelou’s upbringing in Stamps, Arkansas.
Angelou wrote and read her poem “On the Pulse of Morning” for one of these events. Other poetry readings at these events have included Richard Blanco’s “One Today” and Robert Frost’s “The Gift Outright.”
Maya Angelou
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
U.S. presidential inaugurations
This man wrote the “Letter to Chesterfield” after his most famous work received useless endorsements from Chesterfield after publication. For 10 points each:
Name this British writer and “Dr.” who spent nine years writing his most famous work, a massive book containing over 100,000 quotations illustrating its central entries.
In addition to A Dictionary of the English Language, Johnson wrote this long poem subtitled “The Tenth Satire of Juvenal Imitated.”
Johnson appeared in a book of this type written by James Boswell, and himself wrote one involving Richard Savage. Walter Isaacson wrote a book of this type centering on Steve Jobs.
Dr. Samuel Johnson
The Vanity of Human Wishes
biography (accept word forms; prompt on nonfiction or historical nonfiction; do not accept or prompt on “autobiography”)
Let’s get real. For 10 points each, name some things related to literary realism:
Social realism was a reaction to this earlier and widespread movement that emphasized emotion and fought back against cold reason. Don’t confuse this movement with things involving love.
An early realist was this French author, whose novels The Red and the Black and The Charterhouse of Parma spent a lot of time considering how the characters thought.
Literary realism contained both social realism and socialist realism. The latter movement was exemplified by the work of this Soviet playwright who wrote the grimy The Lower Depths.
Romanticism (accept word forms)
Stendhal (or Marie-Henri Beyle)
Maxim Gorky
A story this woman wrote was commissioned by the New York Times Book Review and is narrated by Melania Trump. For 10 points each:
Name this author of that story, “The Arrangements,” as well as more international works, like a novel about a civil war in her native country, Half of a Yellow Sun.
This other author passed away in 2013 and wrote the novels No Longer at Ease and Arrow of God as sequels to a novel in which the protagonist remembers beating the wrestler Amalinze the Cat.
The protagonist Okonkwo of Achebe’s previously described book Things Fall Apart, Adichie, and Achebe himself were all of the Igbo ethnicity from this West African country.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie [“ah-DEE-chay”]
Chinua Achebe
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Answer the following about Japanese crafts, for 10 points each:
This art of Japanese paper folding can be used to create figures such as roses and dragons. Creating one thousand cranes in this art form is supposed to bring good luck.
The kama and chawan are utensils used to serve this food item in a common Japanese ceremony centering around its matcha form.
Japanese art forms, such as rock gardens and pottery, often embrace this two-word rhyming Japanese phrase, which signifies an appreciation for the raw and imperfect parts of an artwork.
origami
green tea
wabi-sabi
This author described the use of perspective in his essay “The Art of Fiction,” which was included in the collection <em>Partial Portraits</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who described Lambert Strether’s recruitment by his fiancee to go and “rescue” Chad Newsome in The Ambassadors.
The Ambassadors takes place largely in this “Old World” city. In the 20th century, members of the “Lost Generation” like Gertrude Stein and F. Scott Fitzgerald would spend considerable time in this European city.
James declared The Ambassadors his best novel in the preface to this 24-volume edition of his works. James notably did not include Washington Square and The Europeans when compiling this geographically named edition.
Henry James
Paris, France
New York Edition
This character concludes his title book by saying, “we must cultivate our garden.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who experiences continental war, a shipwreck, and the Lisbon Earthquake, all despite his tutor Pangloss’s unerring cheeriness.
Candide was written as a satire of Leibniz’s theory of optimism by this Frenchman. An apocryphal story relates how, on being asked to renounce Satan on his deathbed, he quipped, “Now is not the time for making new enemies.”
At one point, Candide and his manservant Cacambo discovers two women being chased by these creatures. Candide shoots them, but is shocked to discover the women and creatures were lovers.
Candide
Voltaire (or François-Marie Arouet)
monkeys
Reading can take you places--even ones in other times! For 10 points each:
This Scottish author is frequently credited as the inventor of the modern historical novel for his authorship of his Waverly novels, which include Ivanhoe, Rob Roy, and Waverly itself.
The best known work of Robert Graves is an apparent autobiography by this Roman emperor, whom Graves depicts as kind and bookish before reluctantly succeeding Caligula as emperor.
Patrick O’Brian’s Aubrey-Martin series of nautical historical novels begins with this one. The title position is held by Jack Aubrey, who takes over leading the HMS Sophie.
Sir Walter Scott
Claudius (accept I, Claudius or Claudius the God)
Master and Commander
The Stella Prize and the Miles Franklin Award were both named for the same person from this country. For 10 points each:
Name this modern day country. It’s home to books like Oscar and Lucinda and Voss, by Peter Carey and Patrick White, respectively.
Fellow Australian writer Thomas Keneally wrote a book titled for this man’s Ark. This industrialist employed a namesake list of Jews to rescue them from the Holocaust.
Peter Carey also wrote The Chemistry of Tears, whose protagonist works in one of these places. Orhan Pamuk wrote a book about one of these “of Innocence,” and Foucault’s Pendulum is narrated from one of them.
Commonwealth of Australia
Oskar Schindler (Ed’s note: do not accept or prompt on “Max Schindler”)
museum (accept specific types)
This poem opens with a dedication “To the Memory of the Household It Describes.” For 10 points each:
Name this long poem describing the various stories told by a New England family while they’re trapped during a blizzard.
Snow-Bound was written by John Greenleaf Whittier, a member of the Fireside poets along with this man. This poet held the Smith Professorship at Harvard and wrote various works like “The Village Blacksmith” and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Longfellow also wrote this long poem about a pre-American figure who falls in love with Minnehaha “on the shores of Gitche Gumee.”
Snow-Bound: A Winter Idyl
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
The Song of Hiawatha
Anne Carson’s collection <em>If Not, Winter</em> is a translation of poems by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this “tenth muse,” a female Greek poet. She wrote the “Hymn to Aphrodite,” and her “Brothers poem” was discovered in 2014.
Sappho notably came to symbolize this trait, to which both her name and island of origin now refer. Gertrude Stein, who wrote a memoir in the voice of her lover Alice B. Toklas, also notably possessed this trait.
The opening line of Sappho’s “Ode to Anactoria,” or Fragment 31, was translated by Peter Saint-Andre as “He seems to me, that one, to be [...]” and then this trait. Catullus’s loose translation of that trait was the Latin “esse deo videtur.”
Sappho
lesbian (accept homosexual or gay or anything remotely suggesting women liking women; accept bisexual, since Sappho was as well; accept Lesbos, the island in question)
“equal to the gods” (be lenient: accept anything that contains the word god(s) and conveys being on the same level as such beings)
This figure lied about the identity of his wife to Pharaoh and Abimelech. For 10 points each:
Name this man who took 318 servants on a night raid against the Elamites, who had taken this man’s nephew captive.
Abraham was rescuing this nephew, who had previously argued with Abraham. This man lost his wife after she was transformed into a pillar of salt for looking back.
Everyone in Lot’s family but his wife escaped the destruction of these two cities, which God destroyed with fire and brimstone due to their sin. Name either, noting that one of the cities spawned a word referring to “crimes against nature.”
Abraham (or Abram)
Lot
Sodom and Gomorrah (accept either; accept sodomy)
A deus ex machina arrives at the end of this play in the form of an officer of Louis XIV. For 10 points each:
Name this French play about the title fraud who claims to be a religious man and nearly manages to con away Orgon’s house. It is subtitled “The Hypocrite.”
Tartuffe is a play by this man, who died following a coughing fit while performing his own play The Imaginary Invalid.
Orgon finally discovers Tartuffe’s treachery while hiding in this location, overhearing Tartuffe attempting to force himself upon Orgon’s wife Elmire.
Tartuffe, or The Impostor, or The Hypocrite
Molière (or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin)
under a table
For 10 points, name some things related to Christian evangelism:
The words “evangelism” and “gospel” can both be loosely translated as this phrase. You’ve probably heard someone knocking at your door asking if you’ve “heard [this three word phrase].”
Among the first pieces of “evangelism” might have been the Sermon on the Mount, in which Jesus also gives this set of eight “blessings,” including ones to the “merciful” and “pure in heart.”
A modern emphasis on child evangelism has focused on a “window” of children between these two ages. That window was named by Bryant Meyers, who also came up with the 10/40 window.
“the Good News”
the Beatitudes
4 and 14 (accept 4/14 Window; prompt on partial answer)
For 10 points each, name some things related to British poems that are really good for a pick-me-up:
A Dylan Thomas poem written for his dying father encourages the listener to “rage, rage against the dying of the light” and “Do not go gentle into [this three word phrase.]”
This William Ernest Henley poem was written after an amputation. It quotes, “My head is bloody but unbowed” and ends “I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul.”
This poet’s “Say not the Struggle nought Availeth” ends with a reminder to fighting soldiers “But westward, look, the land is bright.” Matthew Arnold wrote “Thyrsis” as an elegy for the early death of this man.
“that good night” (accept exact phrase only)
“Invictus”
Arthur Hugh Clough (“cluf,” but accept any reasonable pronunciation)
Quizbowl always happens on Saturdays, so let’s answer questions about that other day of the weekend. For 10 points each:
Book 7 of this epic poem describes God’s creation of the world in six days, and then resting on the seventh. This John Milton poem describes Lucifer’s rebellion against God and subsequent tempting of Adam and Eve.
This American poet described the “complacencies of the peignoir” in the poem “Sunday Morning.” His collection Harmonium includes his “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
Two children cruelly dissect a butterfly in this poet’s “A Lesson for This Sunday.” This Nobel-winning Caribbean poet wondered, “How can I turn from Africa and live?” in “A Far Cry from Africa.”
Paradise Lost
Wallace Stevens
Derek Walcott
Ezra Pound attacked these people with vitriol in the 45th of his <em>Cantos</em>, which loudly repeats “USURA.” For 10 points each:
Name these people, one “of Malta” named Barabas who titles a Marlowe play. Another one named Shylock appears in The Merchant of Venice.
Another antisemitic caricature named Svengali appears in Trilby, a novel by someone with this surname. Another writer with this surname wrote a ghost story in Jamaica Inn and set her most famous novel at the estate of Manderley.
A more positive representation of Jewishness appears in Daniel Deronda, a novel by this author. The true name of this woman was Mary Ann Evans, and she also wrote the books The Mill on the Floss and Silas Marner.
Jews (accept word forms; accept Judaism and word forms)
du Maurier (accept George du Maurier or Daphne du Maurier)
George Eliot
For 10 points each, name some things related to comics...that completely lack any superheroes:
Technically, a straight-to-DVD movie about this cat’s Pet Force was made, but most of the comic strips about this cat just use stale jokes about his owner John, the dog Odie, or how much this cat loves sleeping and lasagna.
This Belgian comic written by Hergé centers on the title character, his terrier Snowy, and treasure-seeking Captain Haddock. Some of its more notable arcs include Red Rackham’s Treasure and The Calculus Affair.
This artist introduced graphic novels into the mainstream with his book about his father’s Holocaust experiences, Maus. He’s married to Francoise Mouly, the New Yorker’s art editor.
Garfield
The Adventures of Tintin
Art Spiegelman
Something’s rotten in the state of Russia. For 10 points each:
This Russian writer notoriously despised Shakespeare, calling him “not even an average writer” in an essay on “King Lear.” Perhaps this man didn’t enjoy that Shakespeare’s plays weren’t as strenuously long as this man’s own War and Peace and Anna Karenina.
One of this Russian’s stories from A Sportsman’s Sketches is titled “Hamlet of the Schigrovsky District.” He also created the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
This man provided several translations for Shakespeare into Russian, including the aforementioned King Lear and Hamlet. He won the Nobel in part for a book in which the title character falls in love with Lara while she’s working as a nurse.
Leo Tolstoy
Ivan Turgenev
Boris Pasternak (Ed’s note: the unnamed novel is Doctor Zhivago)
This character presides over a group of inmates who are split into “Chronics” and “Acutes.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, the antagonist of Ken Kesey’s most famous novel. She orders Randle McMurphy lobotomized after he nearly chokes her to death.
Nurse Ratched appears in this novel set at an insane asylum. It is narrated by the apparently deaf-mute Chief Bromden.
A major victory for the inmates is being allowed to go on a trip to partake in this activity by Dr. Spivey. McMurphy claims that the prostitute Candy is in fact his aunt so that she can join in on this activity.
Nurse Ratched
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
deep-sea fishing (accept word forms)
The most popular translation of this collection was made by W.S. Merwin. For 10 points each:
Name this Chilean poetry collection that includes “Drunk With Pines” and “Girl Lithe and Tawny” among the title number of love poems, as well as a “Song of Despair.”
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair is by this poet, who included a heckuva lot more love poems in 100 Love Sonnets. He also wrote the epic poem Canto General.
The title of this fellow Chilean author’s 2004 novel 2666 is never described in 2666 itself, though it does appear briefly in his Amulet and is sort of described in his book The Savage Detectives.
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair
Pablo Neruda (or Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto)
Roberto Bolaño Ávalos
The stage directions for this play call for a large screen to be used to project words and images, such as a bunch of blue roses and the question “You think I’m in love with Continental Shoemakers?” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Amanda Wingfield searches for a “gentleman caller” for her daughter Laura, who would much rather play with the title figurines.
The Glass Menagerie catapulted this playwright to fame. He would later write Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire before tragicomically choking to death on the cap of a bottle of eyedrops.
This other Williams play attracted scandal, partly due to a scene in which a condom falls out of Alvaro’s pocket after he reveals to Serafina that he has the title marking on his chest.
The Glass Menagerie (Ed’s note: nowadays, it’d be called The Glass Pokemon or something)
Tennessee Williams (or Thomas Lanier Williams)
The Rose Tattoo
Won’t somebody please think of the children? Well, Dickens did. For 10 points each:
Perhaps Dickens’s most famous lovable scramp is this orphan who titles the novel he appears in. He initially asks for “some more” gruel at a workhouse before joining a gang of thieves led by Fagin and the Artful Dodger.
Dickens wrote a partially autobiographical novel titled for this boy, who says “Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life [...] these pages must show.” He eventually grows up, thwarts Uriah Heep, and marries Agnes Wickfield.
This girl works with her grandfather in Dickens’s The Old Curiosity Shop. She and the book were so popular, Americans reportedly stormed ships coming from the UK where the final chapter had already been released to ask if this character was alive.
Oliver Twist (accept either or both names; Ed’s note: if somehow the player can speak in italics, accept [Oliver Twist])
David Copperfield (accept either or both names; Ed’s note: same game. Accept [David Copperfield])
“Little Nell” (accept either or both of Nell Trent; Ed’s note: spoiler alert--she wasn’t; also, Snake kills Dumbledore)
This author wrote the aviation books <em>Night Flight</em> and <em>Wind, Sand, and Stars</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this French writer and aviator. He disappeared during a flight in 1944, and in his most famous book, the title character lives on the asteroid B-612 and falls in love with a rose.
Saint-Exupéry’s most famous book is then of course this children’s book. It contains watercolor drawings by Saint-Exupéry himself.
The narrator of The Little Prince recalls making a drawing of this scene as a child, only for every adult he shows it to to think it’s a hat. The Little Prince immediately knows what it’s a drawing of.
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry
The Little Prince (or Le Petit Prince)
a snake swallowing an elephant (accept any snake in place of “snake” and synonyms like eating in place of “swallowing”; prompt on partial answers than just mention the animals without the actions, or the action without the animals)
After causing God to poof out of existence using an argument based on this animal, one character goes on to prove that black is white before getting run over at a zebra crossing. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional organism which secretes a “telepathic matrix” after it has been placed into a person’s ear, allowing that person to understand all languages.
The Babel Fish is introduced in this book. In this book, Arthur Dent and Ford Prefect are tortured by being forced to listen to Vogon poetry, which is acknowledged as the third worst in the Universe.
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy is a work by this British science fiction author.
Babel Fish
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy
Douglas (Noel) Adams
This author’s 2016 novel <em>Nutshell</em> is partially narrated by a fetus. For 10 points each:
Name this British author whose most famous novel centers on Briony Tallis’s mistaken accusation of Robbie as a rapist. That novel by this author ends with the revelation that its first three parts were a fiction written by Briony.
In McEwan’s Atonement, Robbie is inspired by his reading of this sultry book in writing a letter. In this D.H. Lawrence book, Constance has an affair with her husband’s gameskeeper.
McEwan also wrote the book Amsterdam, a city in which this girl had hidden behind a bookcase 50 years earlier, writing her namesake diary.
Ian (Russell) McEwan
Lady Chatterly’s Lover
Anne Frank (or Annelies Marie Frank)
The title character of this story is related in a childhood tale told to Nathaniel about a figure who feeds eyes to his children. For 10 points each:
Name this E.T.A. Hoffman story in which Nathaniel goes mad after falling in love with Spallanzani’s “daughter,” Olympia. Nathaniel eventually jumps off a cliff while screaming “pretty eyes!”
Another E.T.A. Hoffman story is one about this Christmas toy, who comes alive and helps the young Marie defeat the Mouse King.
In “The Sandman,” it turns out that Olympia is actually an automaton. This Czech playwright would later coin the term “robot” in his play R.U.R.
“The Sandman”
the Nutcracker (accept “The Nutcracker and the Mouse King”)
Karel Čapek [“TCHA-pek”]
The central family in this story stops to eat at Red Sammy’s diner. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Bailey’s family is murdered by the Misfit and his gang after the Grandmother mistakenly remembers the location of an abandoned house on a trip to Florida.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find” was written by this Southern Gothic writer. Her other short stories include “Everything that Rises Must Converge” and “The Lame Shall Enter First.”
This novel, O’Connor’s first, follows Hazel Motes as he founds a “Church Without Christ.” Motes’ partner Enoch Emory steals a gorilla suit as part of his delusion that he possesses the title revelatory substance.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find”
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
Wise Blood
Reading can take you places--not always real ones. For 10 points each:
George Orwell imagined the fictional, but possible, mega-countries of Oceania, Eurasia and Eastasia in this dystopian novel. Winston admits to loving Big Brother in it.
This author depicted a royal of the fictional state of Grunewald in Prince Otto. His much better quality adventure novels include Kidnapped and one in which Billy Bones receives a dreaded Black Spot.
The adventure genre of Ruritanian romances were established by Anthony Hope in this book. In this book, King Rudolf of the fictional kingdom of Ruritania is swapped with his cousin.
Nineteen Eighty-Four (dunno why it would matter, but accept 1984)
Robert Louis Stevenson (the latter novel is Treasure Island)
The Prisoner of Zenda
This novel’s narrator is blamed for the death of his neighbor Tortoiseshell. For 10 points each:
Name this satirical novel. Its protagonist is owned by the schoolteacher Mr. Sneaze and makes many comments on the stupidity of humans before drowning in a barrel.
The world essentially ends at the end of this Kurt Vonnegut novel after a piece of ice-nine falls into the sea. It’s titled after a children’s game.
Another famous literary cat is the Cheshire Cat, who appears in Lewis Carroll’s novel about this girl’s Adventures in Wonderland.
I Am A Cat (or Wagahai wa Neko de Aru; the author is Natsume Soseki)
Cat’s Cradle
Alice (accept Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland or Alice in Wonderland)
This poet wrote the lyrics to Johnny Cash’s song “A Boy Named Sue.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of the collections Falling Up and A Light in the Attic.
This ubiquitous rhymer managed to use only 50 words to write Green Eggs and Ham. You might have learned to read from his book One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish.
The first poem in this T.S. Eliot collection claims that the “Naming” of the title group of cats is a “difficult matter.” Other poems describe the “Last Stand” of Growltiger and the rather mysterious Macavity.
Sheldon Allan “Shel” Silverstein
Dr. Seuss (or Theodore Seuss Geisel; Ed’s note: One buzz two buzz power buzz neg buzz)
Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats (prompt on partial answer, but only accept exact answer)
This writer examined the racist misattribution of a rape to a black man in the play <em>The Respectful Prostitute</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this French writer, whose other works include the screenplay The Chips Are Down, and a play about Hugo’s assassination of Hoederer, Dirty Hands.
By far Sartre’s best known play, though, is this existentialist one about three people trapped in a room together in Hell, thus drawing the line “Hell is other people.”
Sartre also wrote The Flies, an adaptation of the Oresteia trilogy by this ancient Greek tragedian. He also wrote The Suppliants and Prometheus Bound.
Jean-Paul-Charles-Aymard Sartre (Ed’s note: hold the door :cry: )
No Exit (or Huis Clos)
Aeschylus
The title character of this novel is amazed by a skywriting plane before entering a flower shop, where she gets the bejeezus scared out of her by the sound of a backfiring car. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, whose protagonist hosts a party at which she learns of the suicide of Septimus Smith. The first name of this book’s title character is Clarissa.
Mrs. Dalloway is a work by this female British author of the feminist essay “A Room of One’s Own.” She also wrote the stream-of-consciousness heavy To the Lighthouse.
The gender-shifting protagonist of Woolf’s novel Orlando was inspired by this friend and sometimes lover of hers, whose own literary feats include The Edwardians and All Passion Spent.
Mrs. Dalloway
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf
Vita Sackville-West (or Victoria Mary Sackville-West; or the Lady Nicholson)
The title character of one of this woman’s works grows up with a boy nicknamed “Baasie,” who later becomes angry with her for never learning his real name. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Rosa and her Communist parents in Burger’s Daughter. The Smales are forced to take shelter in their servant’s village in her book July’s People.
Gordimer wrote extensively about the effects of apartheid in this native country of hers.
André Brink and Breyten Breytenbach led this group of Afrikaans-speaking anti-apartheid writers. Their name comes from the Afrikaans for “Sixties,” the decade in which they were most active.
Nadine Gordimer
Republic of South Africa
Sestigers
This month breeds "lilacs out of the dead land, mixing memory and desire." For 10 points each:
 Identify this month that begins "The Burial of the Dead," the first section of T.S. Eliot's "The Waste Land." The pilgrims in the Canterbury Tales also set out to visit St. Thomas Becket's relics in this month.
Another Eliot poem is the "Love Song" of this man, who "shall wear the bottoms of [his] trousers rolled" and who wonders, "Do I dare to eat a peach?"
The speaker of "Prufrock" claims that he has measured his life with these objects, right before he hears voices dying "with a dying fall beneath the music from a farther room."
April
 J. Alfred Prufrock [accept "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"]
 coffee spoons [prompt on "spoons"]
During a flashback in this play, a high school football star sees his father with The Woman, who repossesses a pair of silk stockings originally meant for Linda. For 10 points each:
Identify this play, which depicts the "nerd" Bernard as a successful lawyer while Willy's son, Biff, fails a math exam and steals Bill Oliver's fountain pen.
This author of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible used his marriage to Marilyn Monroe as a basis for his play After the Fall.
In Death of a Salesman, Willy regrets his decision not to follow this character, his older brother, to Alaska. This character struck it rich in the African jungle, and he appears in a hallucination during Willy's card game.
Death of a Salesman
Arthur [Asher] Miller
Uncle Ben
His most famous novel includes a description of dipping a madeleine into some lime tea and then having the memory of his whole childhood spring out of it. For 10 points each:
Name this author who created characters like the Verdurins and the composer Vinteuil in his In Search of Lost Time.
Marcel Proust was an author from this country, which was also home to Emile Zola.
The first volume of In Search of Lost Time is named for Charles Swann, who marries this disreputable woman. This woman later becomes Gilberte's mother, and, in the last volume, is known as Madame de Forcheville.
[Valentin Louis Georges EugÃ¨ne] Marcel Proust
France
 Odette de CrÃ©cy [or Odette Swann; do NOT accept or prompt on just "Swann"]
A character in this play describes ballroom dancing as "A world without collisions." For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Hally runs away from home, leaving his childhood servants Sam and Willie.
Hally's father lost his leg in this war. A Bell for Adano and The Caine Mutiny are both set during this war.
"Master Harold"...and the boys is set in this country, and its author Athol Fugard also hails from this country. Other writers from this country include J.M. Coetzee and Nadine Gordimer, both of whom wrote about apartheid.
"Master Harold"...and the boys
World War II [or WWII]
 Republic of South Africa [or Republiek van Suid-Afrika; or iRiphabhuliki yaseNingizimu Afrika; or iRiphabliki yomZantsi Afrika; accept equivalents] 
Answer some questions about John Steinbeck, for 10 points each.
In Of Mice and Men, Lennie accidentally does this to Curley's Wife. George then decides to do it painlessly to Lennie, before a lynchmob does it.
In this Steinbeck novel, Mack and the boys of the Palace Flophouse, who love old tennis shoes whiskey, throw parties for Doc. Sweet Thursday is a sequel to this work, which is set on a sardine-processing street in Monterey.
In Cannery Row, Dora Flood owns one of these places. Another of these establishments is owned by Cathy after she abandons Adam Trask and her twin sons in Steinbeck's East of Eden.
 killing [accept more specific methods, like shooting, breaking her neck, or hanging]
Cannery Row
brothels [or whorehouse; accept reasonable equivalents]
Answer some questions about English poetry in the sixteenth and seventeenth century, for 10 points each.
This poet used the metaphor of a compass in "A Valediction Forbidding Mourning." His works vary from heavy religious meditations to whimsical and scandalous love poems, like "The Flea."
Donne has been included in this group of poets, who used fancy analogies and wrote about love and religion. They included Cowley, Herbert, and Marvell.
Andrew Marvell is most famous for "To His Coy Mistress," which begins by noting that coyness "were not crime," "had we but world enough" and this. He also hears this thing's wingÃ¨d chariot hurrying near.
 John Donne
metaphysical poets
time [accept "had we but world enough and time"; accept "Time's wingÃ¨d chariot hurrying near"] 
Answer some questions about wine, for 10 points each.
As translated by Edward Fitzgerald, this volume of Persian quatrains by Omar Khayyam declares that wilderness would be paradise with "a book of verses under the bough, a jug of wine, a loaf of bread—and thou."
In this Chinese classic, Liu Bei quaffs wine to declare brotherhood with Zhang Fei and Guanyu in the Peach Garden Oath. In this novel, Liu Bei becomes king of Shu, which fights against the rival states of Wei and Wu.
Homer frequently uses the dark shade of wine to describe this entity. The "[this] of Faith" was once "at the fullÂ…and lay like a bright girdle unfurled" in a Matthew Arnold poem.
The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or Sanguo Yanyi]
the sea [prompt on "ocean;" do not accept any other kind of water body]
The narrator of this novel is writing a tract on the Marquis de Rollebon. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel in which the "Self-Taught Man" is barred from the library for his advances on a boy. In this novel set in Bouville, Anny's former lover, Roquentin, is appalled by the root of a chestnut tree.
Nausea has a basis in this philosophical movement espoused by its author, Jean-Paul Sartre. This philosophical movement asserts that we should focus on our own "being" in the face of the absurdity of the world.
This novel about Tomas and his chronic infidelity to Tereza wrestles with existentialism and nihilism, especially after Czech Communist authorities force Tomas to become a window-washer.
Nausea [or La NausÃ©e]
existentialism
The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lekhost byti]
In one of this man's novels, a man stays with Nur and plots revenge against Ilish, who is married to his former wife. For 10 points each:
 Identify this author who traced al-Sayyid Ahmad's family and wrote Midaq Alley and The Thief and the Dogs.
 Mahfouz hails from this Middle Eastern country, which is also the setting of his Cairo trilogy.
 South of Egypt, you can find immortal white sorceress queens who step into pillars of fire and fabulous treasure rooms inside mountains, according to this author of Victorian adventure novels like She and King Solomon's Mines.
Naguib Mahfouz
Egypt [or Misr; or Masr]
H. Rider Haggard [or Henry Rider Haggard]
One character from this play thinks that he's the Archangel Gabriel after receiving a head injury in World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Troy, a garbage truck driver, kicks his son Cory out of the house. It was written by August Wilson.
Fences is part of August Wilson's ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle, which is set in this state.
 In Fences, Troy quit this profession because he could not make good money as an African-American. Troy later assaults his son with an object used in this profession.
Fences
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
baseball player [accept baseball bat; accept answers involving the Negro Leagues; prompt on anything that mentions being an "athlete" or similar]
Name some characters from A Thousand and One Nights. For 10 points each:
 This storytelling queen from the frame story of A Thousand and One Nights would probably have been executed like all of the king's other wives if not for her skill in dropping cliffhangers.
One of Scheherazade's stories deals with the seven voyages of this man, who finds a valley of diamonds and gets carted around by a giant bird.
This slave girl in Ali Baba's household dumps boiling oil on thirty seven thieves and then kills their leader while she performs a sword dance. Earlier, she had saved Ali Baba by marking all the doors in town.
Scheherazade [or Shahrazad; or Sahrzad]
Sinbad the Sailor [or Sindbad]
 Morgiana [or Morgana; or Marjanah] 
Answer some questions about one of the stranger cases of mutual fandom in British literature, for 10 points each.
The title character of this novel considers becoming a missionary with St. John Rivers, but she ultimately marries Adele's guardian after that man's first wife burns down Thornfield Hall.
The second edition of Jane Eyre was incongruously dedicated to this satirical novelist of Vanity Fair. This creator of Becky Sharp was very moved by the earnestness of Jane Eyre, perhaps because he had his own mad wife.
Although Becky Sharp is married to Rawdon Crawley, her indiscretions with this aristocrat earn her husband the governorship of Coventry Island. This man eventually threatens to murder Becky, forcing her to leave Rome.
Jane Eyre: An Autobiography
William Makepeace Thackeray
the Marquis of Steyne [or Lord Steyne; or George Gustavus (accept either underlined part); prompt on "the Marquis"] 
This writer's advice to Franz Kappus was collected in Letters to a Young Poet. For 10 points each:
 Name this German-language poet who asked "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" in The Duino Elegies.
 Rilke wrote a set of sonnets to this mythological figure, who wields a lyre. In the thirteenth sonnet, Rilke references this character's wife, Eurydice.
Rilke's only novel is titled after these things, which belong to Malte Laurids Brigge. A "Golden" one belonging to Anna Wulf ties together her previous black, red, yellow, and blue ones in a Doris Lessing novel.
Rainer Maria Rilke [or RenÃ© Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]
Orpheus
notebooks [or journal; or aufzeichnungen; prompt on "diary"] 
He originated a style of satire often contrasted with Juvenal's. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman poet and friend of Maecenas. He also wrote several Epistles.
Horace wrote four books of poems in this genre, which was pioneered by Pindar. Near the end of his life, Keats wrote six of these, including one "to a Nightingale" and one "on a Grecian Urn."
Horace also wrote this "Epistle to the Pisos," which gives guidelines for how to write good poems and drama. It is the origin of the phrases in medias res and "even Homer nods."
Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
odes [or carmina]
Ars Poetica [or The Art of Poetry]
Answer some questions about tycoons who know how to exploit history, for 10 points each.
This crafty mess officer creates "the syndicate," which sells black-market goods like eggs and chocolate-covered cotton. He is paid by the Germans to bomb his own squadron at Pianosa during World War II.
Milo Minderbinder's schemes appear in this 1961 Joseph Heller novel, which centers on Yossarian.
In a short story by this author, Percy Washington's grandfather moves to Montana and tells his slaves that the South won the Civil War to keep them in bondage. That short story describes "A Diamond as Big as the Ritz."
Milo Minderbinder [accept either underlined part]
 Catch-22
 F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald] 
In this novel, Robert Walton meets a scientist who once studied in Ingolstadt. For 10 points each:
Identify this Mary Shelley novel in which Victor creates a monster from bits of corpses.
Victor's younger brother, William, dies by this method at the hands of Frankenstein's monster. Henry Clerval and Elizabeth Lavenza also die by this method.
A virtuous servant girl with this first name is mistakenly hanged for William's murder because she has William's locket. Another girl with this name gets ravished by monks and titles a novel by the Marquis de Sade.
Frankenstein; or, the Modern Prometheus
strangulation [accept clear equivalents; prompt on "murder" or equivalents]
 Justine [or Justine Moritz; or Justine de Bertole]
Tell the time of day using British poetry, for 10 points each:
This author described a man “waking at four to soundless dark” in “Aubade.” The speaker realizes “What will survive of us is love” upon seeing a memorial effigy in his “An Arundel Tomb.”
This poet wrote about hearing a “lover sing” in the lyrical “As I Walked Out One Evening.” He wrote about the invasion of Poland in “September 1, 1939,” and wrote the mournful “Funeral Blues.”
This poet described “silent icicles” performing their “secret ministry” in “Frost at Midnight.” His most famous work describes a sailor who shoots an albatross and is consequently punished with “water, water everywhere.”
Philip Larkin
NWER: W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
Samuel Taylor Coleridge (the poem is “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”)
A secret discovered in this book is located in “the end of Africa.” For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this book narrated by Adso of Melk. It’s discovered that Jorge of Burgos really, really dislikes comedy in this book.
[10] The Name of the Roseis a book by this Italian who considered lots of lists in his 2009 The Infinity of Lists.
Eco also wrote a novel titled after one of these swinging devices created by Léon Foucault to show the Earth’s rotation. A Poe short story is titled after a “pit” and one of these devices.
The Name of the Rose
Umberto Eco
pendulum
After sexually harassing a goddess, this character is sentenced to live a thousand lives, each one ending with a romantic failure. For 10 points each:
Name this gluttonous character who is half­man, half­farmyard animal. Unlike his more powerful companion, he is only capable of 36 transformations, and he fights enemies with a nine­toothed rake.
Zhu Bajie accompanies the monkey king Sun Wukong [“swun OO­kung”] as they protect the Buddhist monk Xuanzang [“shwen­tsang”] on his pilgrimage in this book, one of the Four Great Classics of Chinese literature.
Sun Wukong’s other sidekick, Sha Wujing [“shah woo­jeeng”], originally lived as a man­eating monster in one of these locations. Historically, China has been frequently devastated by the flooding of one of these bodies of water named for its high silt content.
ZhuBajie[“tzu bah­jeh”] (accept either underlined part; also accept either underlined part of Zhu Wuneng;accept Pigsyor Pig)
Journey to the West(accept Xi you ji[“see yo gee”]; accept Monkey)
rivers(accept Yellow Riveror Huang He)
The second part of this novel is narrated by Quentin Compson during his time at Harvard. For 10 points each:
Name this complex novel by William Faulkner centering on the Compson family. Spoiler: Quentin kills himself by leaping off of Anderson Bridge, while nowadays Harvard students jump off of the nearby Weeks Bridge for fun.
This transcendentalist attended Harvard College and Harvard Divinity School, and delivered his essay “The American Scholar” at the local Phi Beta Kappa Society. This philosopher and writer described a “transparent eyeball” in his essay Nature.
This author created Eugene Gant, who departs for Harvard College at the end of this man’s novel Look Homeward, Angel.The rest of Eugene’s life post-­Harvard is detailed in his other novel Of Time and the River.
The Sound and the Fury(do not accept “The Sound and Fury”)
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Thomas (Tom) Wolfe(accept either first name; if players seem confused, explain there is a later writer also named “Thomas (Tom) Wolfe”)
Algerian journalist Kamel Daoud’s 2015 novel <em><strong>The Meursault Investigation</strong></em>is narrated by the brother of the Arab who is killed in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that opens, “Mother died today. Or maybe yesterday; I can’t be sure.”
This French­Algerian absurdist and existentialist wrote The Stranger,as well as The Plagueand The Fall.
Facing execution for shooting the Arab, Meursault’s last wish and the closing line of the novel is this one. A general description is acceptable.
The Stranger(accept L’etranger)
Albert Camus
“on the day of my execution there should be a huge crowdof spectators who greet me with cries of hate” (be lenient; accept anything mentioning the desire for a crowd or many spectators)
This event occurs even though one character has “sought her own salvation.” For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this scene that opens Act 5 of the play in which it occurs. The “Alas, poor Yorick” scene occurs during this event.
This man calls Yorick a fellow of “infinite jest” and then acts really crazy while kneeling in Ophelia’s grave. Other signs of his craziness including threatening his mother Gertrude and delivering the “to be or not to be” soliloquy.
Much of Hamlet’s madness stems from his indecision over whether or not to kill this character, who had (presumptively) killed Hamlet’s father before the play began.
Ophelia’s funeral(accept any answer about Opheliabeing buried)
Prince Hamlet
Claudius
Name these people who were just <em><strong>nearly</strong></em> <em></em>brought back to life, for 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
This man himself didn't come back to life, but he nearly brought his wife Eurydice back to life. If only he hadn't looked back!
Odysseus ventured into the underworld to temporarily revive and consult with this prophet and seer. During his life, this man had been temporarily turned into a woman.
This man's wife Laodamia committed suicide after seeing this first Greek casualty in the Trojan War return from the Underworld for three hours.
Orpheus
Tiresias
Protesilaus
James T. Farrell’s <em>Studs Lonigan</em> trilogy is set in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city which is described as “Hog Butcher for the World” in a namesake poem by Carl Sandburg.
This author’s The Adventures of Augie March opens with the line “I am an American, Chicago born.” This author also wrote about the letter-writing Herzog.
“Frankie Machine” struggles in the underbelly of Chicago in this Nelson Algren novel. The title was inspired by a phrase Algren heard a bookie use.
Chicago
Saul Bellow
The Man with the Golden Arm
Name the African country by its authors, for 10 points each:
Naguib Mahfouz’s Palace Walk, Palace Desire, and Sugar Street constitute his Cairo Trilogy set in this country.
Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o is a writer from this country who proactively made the switch from using English to this country’s native Kikuyu. Karen Blixen wrote a memoir about living in this country.
Leopold Senghor was both a president of this country and a member of the Negritude movement. Mariama Ba’s So Long a Letter is set in this country.
Arab Republic of Egypt
Republic of Kenya
Republic of Senegal
Aphra Behn was a female playwright from this period. For 10 points each:
Name this period of English literature that flourished under the rule of Charles II. Popular authors of this period included William Wycherly and William Congreve.
This Restoration playwright savaged his contemporary Thomas Shadwell in the play MacFlecknoe. He also wrote the satire Absalom and Achitophel and the tragedy All for Love.
Dryden completed a verse translation of this work, whose literary aspects include a long allegory comparing a city’s workers to bees and a character whose overarching attribute is pietas [“pee-eh-tas”].
Restoration period (accept basically anything mentioning Restoration)
John Dryden
The Aeneid
Answer some questions about American immigrant literature, for 10 points each:
Lines from the Emma Lazarus poem “The New Colossus” adorn this monument. “The New Colossus” imagines this monument asking for “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”
This collection of vignettes was written by Sandra Cisneros, and describes the Mexican-American Esperanza’s coming of age in the title Chicago neighborhood.
Several interactions between Americans and Indian immigrants are described in stories from this short story collections, such as “Sexy” and “The Third and Final Continent.” In the title story of this collection, Bobby is rescued from a group of hungry monkeys.
Statue of Liberty
The House on Mango Street
Interpreter of Maladies (the author is Jhumpa Lahiri)
A relatively unimportant work by this author is his novella <em>La Fanfarlo</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Frenchman better known for including sections like “Spleen and Ideal,” “Wine,” and “Death” in his collection The Flowers of Evil.
This other Frenchman published his Symbolist masterpieces A Season in Hell and “The Drunken Boat” before he turned 21.
This other Symbolist wrote the Saturnine Poems, but he also carried on tempestuous relationship with Rimbaud that at one point led to him firing a gun at the young man.
Charles Baudelaire
Arthur Rimbaud
Paul Verlaine
The main characters in Nevil Shute’s novel <em>On the Beach</em> all die in the wake of one of these disasters. For 10 points each:
Name this type of disaster which has occurred prior to the start of Ray Bradbury’s story “There Will Come Soft Rains.”
The 2015 Nobel Prize in Literature was awarded to Svetlana Alexievich, a Belarusian journalist who wrote about Voices from [this event]. Alexievich interviewed more than 500 people in writing about this disaster stemming from a nuclear reactor in Ukraine.
This author railed against his country’s usage of nuclear power in an acceptance speech for the International Catalunna Prize. His most recent novel is Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage, while his first was Hear the Wind Sing.
nuclear bombing (accept anything involving nuclear or nukes, like nuclear holocaust or nuclear attack or nuclear fallout; prompt on “radiation poisoning”; prompt on “World War III”)
Chernobyl disaster (accept anything mentioning Chernobyl)
Haruki Murakami
The epic <em>The Hasty-Pudding</em> extols the people of this country. For 10 points each:
Name this modern day country where an early poetess became known as “the Tenth Muse, lately Sprung up in [this country].”
Another colonial poet was this woman and former slave who invoked a “celestial choir” and “Columbia’s scenes of glorious toil” in her poem “To His Excellency General Washington.”
Though best known as the “Poet of the American Revolution,” Philip Freneau also wrote naturalist poems like this one about a “fair flower, that dost so comely grow.”
United States of America (or USA, or the States, etc.; the poetess is Anne Bradstreet)
Phillis Wheatley
“The Wild Honeysuckle”
An old man listens to old recordings and eats several bananas in this author’s <em>Krapp’s Last Tape</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish dramatist and member of the Theatre of the Absurd. He created the characters of Hamm and Clov in his apocalyptic Endgame.
Most famously, Beckett wrote this play about Vladimir and Estragon, who spend two days doing random things like meeting the pompous Pozzo and discussing suicide. The title character never shows up.
The set for Waiting for Godot notably features only a single item, which the main characters wait next to. Name that object.
Samuel Beckett
Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts (or En attendant Godot)
a tree
In this novel, Father Dosen tells the story of Nansen killing a kitten. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, whose protagonist Mizoguchi befriends the clubfooted Kashiwagi. Mizoguchi is inspired in this novel by the phrase “When you meet the Buddha, kill the Buddha.”
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion is by this Japanese author who also wrote the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
In The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, a member of this profession gets Mizoguchi to stomp on the belly of his pregnant girlfriend. Other novels concerning members of this profession include The Things They Carried and All Quiet on the Western Front.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion (accept Kinkaju-ji)
Yukio Mishima (accept names in either order)
soldiers (accept equivalents, including those indicating members of the military, army, etc.)
The Virginia Theater was renamed for this man two weeks after his death in 2005. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright whose 10-play Pittsburgh Cycle includes plays like Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom and Joe Turner’s Come and Gone.
The most famous member of the Pittsburgh Cycle is this one, centering on the truck driver Troy and his desire to build the title dividing structures around his house. Troy gives an allegorical monologue about the title structures keeping the Grim Reaper away.
A frequently recurring character in the Pittsburgh Cycle is this matron, claimed in Gem of the Ocean to be 285 years old. This character dies in King Hedley II at the ripe young age of 366.
August Wilson
Fences
Aunt Esther Tyler
In one novel by this author the title character achieves enlightenment with the help of a ferryman. For 10 points each:
Name this German author of Siddhartha who described another character’s mystical experience in The Magic Theatre in Steppenwolf.
Hesse also wrote this book which describes Joseph Knecht’s resignation as Magister Ludi before telling two separate but related stories.
Hesse also wrote Narcissus and Goldmund. In the novel, Goldmund abandons this profession after making love with a stranger, before he eventually reunites with Narcissus.
Hermann Hesse
The Glass Bead Game
monk (accept friar)
This man wrote of being torn between “[b]etween this Africa and the English tongue I love.” For 10 points each:
Name this Saint Lucian poet who wrote Omeros and described “the gorilla” wrestling with “the superman” in A Far Cry from Africa.
Omeros is a modern day retelling of this epic poem. In this Homeric epic, the title character faces a number of obstacles in his 20 year voyage back home after fighting in the Trojan War.
This other Caribbean author was ethnically Indian, but was born in Trinidad. The title character takes on various jobs like sign painter and journalist in this author’s A House for Mr Biswas.
Derek Walcott
The Odyssey
V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) Naipaul
In this novel, one character listens to Beethoven’s fifteenth string quartet while awaiting the arrival of men sent to kill him. For 10 points each:
Name this book, which includes a love affair between Walter Bidlake and Marjorie Carling, as well as the character of Mark Rampion, a thinly-veiled portrait of D.H. Lawrence.
This author depicted himself as the detached intellectual Philip Quarles in his Point Counter Point. He’s more famous for writing about a dystopian society that measures time using years “After Ford” in Brave New World.
At the end of Brave New World, John flees to, and eventually commits suicide in, one of these structures. In a Virginia Woolf novel, the Ramsay family visits one of these buildings before and after a ten year period..
Point Counter Point
Aldous (Leonard) Huxley
a lighthouse (accept To the Lighthouse)
This sport is covered in Roger Kahn’s book <em>The Boys of Summer</em>, which itself takes its name from a Dylan Thomas poem. For 10 points each:
Name this sport that a “Mighty” character fails miserably at in the poem “Casey at the Bat.”
This book by Bernard Malamud centers on Roy Hobbs, a baseball wunderkind who excels with his bat “Wonderboy.”
This writer wrote the poem “Line-Up for Yesterday: An ABC of Baseball Immortals.” This poet and witticist parodied Joyce Kilmer by sadly noting “unless the billboards fall / I’ll never see a tree at all.”
baseball
The Natural
Ogden Nash
An avalanche kills the main characters in this author’s very last play, <em>When We Dead Awaken</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Norwegian playwright who created strong independent women like Nora Helmer in A Doll’s House and the title woman in Hedda Gabler.
Hedvig shoots herself at the end of this Ibsen play, though the rest of the characters assume that she had gone to kill the title bird.
The widow Mrs. Alving is tasked with managing an orphanage in this play. This play ends with Mrs. Alving deciding whether or not to euthanize her syphilis-afflicted son.
Henrik Ibsen
The Wild Duck
Ghosts
One character in this novel has “Big Thinks” that are compared to sermons. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Edward Prendick meets various Beast Folk created by Montgomery and his master.
In this other book by the author of The Island of Doctor Moreau, Griffin experiments with optics and achieves the title state before being killed by a mob.
The Island of Doctor Moreau and The Invisible Man are books by this author, whose other science-fiction novels include The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
The Island of Doctor Moreau
The Invisible Man
H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells
The author of this book explicitly based it upon “fairy stories.” For 10 points each:
Name this book. In one episode from this book, the main characters trick a group of trolls into turning to stone.
The Hobbit is a work by this British fantasy author, who expanded the Hobbit universe with the The Lord of the Rings trilogy and The Silmarillion.
Tolkien wrote the essay “The Monsters and the Critics,” which concerns this work. John Gardner’s most famous book is written from the perspective of an antagonist in this work.
The Hobbit, or There and Back Again
J(ohn) R(onald) R(euel) Tolkien
Beowulf
The final act of this play begins with the king entering onstage in a flying chariot. For 10 points each:
Name this play. Disaster strikes its main character after she loses a ring in a river, although all ends well after the king is taken on a tour of Heaven by Indra.
The Recognition of Shakuntala is a work by Kalidasa, who also wrote a play titled for the Messenger of these inanimate objects. These weather phenomena also title an Aristophanes play in which Strepsiades burns down Socrates’ Thinkery.
Kalidasa wrote The Recognition of Shakuntala and The Cloud Messenger in this ancient language originating from the Indian subcontinent. Many important Hindu texts like the Vedas were written in this language.
The Recognition of Shakuntala (or Abhijnanashakuntalam; or The Sign of Shakuntala; or basically any translation about realizing that a person is Shakuntala; accept Sakuntala for Shakuntala)
clouds (accept The Cloud Messenger; accept The Clouds)
Sanskrit
Name some things related to the Fireside Poets, for 10 points each:
This prominent member perpetuated the myth of a midnight ride in his poem “Paul Revere’s Ride,” and he wrote an epic about an Iroquois leader in The Song of Hiawatha.
The Fireside Poet Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. wrote this poem about the USS Constitution that begins “Aye tear her tattered ensign down.”
A member of the Fireside Poets with this surname satirized his fellow poets in A Fable for Critics. A later poet with this surname wrote “I myself am hell” in his poem “Skunk Hour.”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
“Old Ironsides”
Lowell (accept James Russell Lowell or Robert Lowell; Ed’s note: GO LOWELL HOUSE)
Fabrizio del Dongo dresses up as a hussar in this book allowing him to fight at the Battle of Waterloo. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Fabrizio escapes from the Farnese Tower with his lover Clelia Conti, before ultimately retiring to the title monastery.
The Charterhouse of Parma was written by Stendhal, who also wrote about Julien Sorel in this colorfully titled novel. It chronicles Julian’s rise through society and various flings with women like Mathilde de la Mole and Madame de Rênal.
This fate befalls Julian at the end of The Red and the Black. Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities spends considerable time discussing this manner of death and the French device used to execute it.
The Charterhouse of Parma (or La Chartreuse de Parme)
The Red and the Black: A Chronicle of the 19th Century (accept “scarlet” in place of “red;” accept Le Rouge et le Noir: Chronique du XIXe siècle)
beheading (accept equivalents like decapitation or guillotining; accept word forms; prompt on less specific answers like “killing” or “execution”)
The protagonist of this book meets a man who is a member in Inamorati Anonymous. For 10 points each:
Name this book that ends with Oedipa Maas attending an auction of stamps.
The Crying of Lot 49 is a book by this reclusive author. He created Tyrone Slothrop, a character who is sexually conditioned to German rockets, in Gravity’s Rainbow.
This Pynchon novel opens with private investigator Doc Sportello receiving a visit from Shasta Hepworth.
The Crying of Lot 49
Thomas Pynchon
Inherent Vice
The first act of this play ends with one character forcing the others to sing the Internationale. For 10 points each:
Identify this play by Dario Fo about the Maniac, who interrogates several policemen about the title event. It is based on the story of Giuseppe Pinelli, who fell to his death from a police station in Milan.
Dario Fo was the second Italian dramatist to win the Nobel Prize in literature, after this man had won it earlier in 1934. This playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Dario Fo also wrote about this monarch in a play whose title claims she was “Almost by Chance a Woman.” Shakespeare composed his plays during this monarch’s reign.
Accidental Death of an Anarchist (or Morte accidentale di un anarchico)
Luigi Pirandello
Elizabeth I of England (prompt on “Elizabeth”)
Keri Hulme’s novel <em>The Bone People</em> refers heavily to the culture of these people. For 10 points each:
Name this indigenous peoples of New Zealand. Alan Duff’s novel Once Were Warriors describes the difficulties of a family of these peoples integrating into suburban life.
This more Western writer, but also an inhabitant of New Zealand, described the conflicts between social classes in short stories like “The Garden Party.”
This book about a fictional country was based on Samuel Butler’s experiences in New Zealand. Its first three chapters are title “The Book of the Machines.”
Māori
Katherine Mansfield (or Kathleen Mansfield Murry or Kathleen Mansfield Beauchamp)
Erewhon; or, Over the Range
This poem was inspired by a trip taken by the author with his sister Dorothy. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that begins by stating that “Five years have past” since the speaker last visited the title location. It’s longer official title is “Lines written a few miles above [the title place.]”
“Tintern Abbey” is a work by this English poet, who “wandered lonely as a cloud” above a field of daffodils in his most famous work.
This Wordsworth sonnet states that its addressee’s soul was “like a Star, and dwelt apart.” It implores John Milton to return to England, calling the country “a fen / Of stagnant waters: altar, sword, and pen.”
“Lines written a few miles above Tintern Abbey, on revisiting the banks of the Wye during a tour, July 13, 1798” (Ed’s note: free cookie for anyone giving the full title)
William Wordsworth
“London, 1802”
Two characters in this play debate the theory of evolution after one of them names Charles Darwin as a “man of magnitude.” For 10 points each:
Name this play that depicts the deterioration of the relationship between the teenager Hally and his servants, Sam and Willie.
“Master Harold”...and the Boys is a play by Athol Fugard, a writer from this country. This country is also the setting of Nadine Gordimer’s novels July’s People and The Conservationist.
In “Master Harold”...and the Boys, Sam creates this kind of toy for Hally. A “runner” of these toys titles the debut novel of Khaled Hosseini.
“Master Harold”...and the Boys
Republic of South Africa
kites (accept The Kite Runner)
John Crowe Ransom established a powerhouse of literature at Kenyon College in the mid-1900s. In honor of him, name some literary alumni of Kenyon, for 10 points each:
This writer’s many bestselling young adult novels include Looking for Alaska, Paper Towns, and The Fault in Our Stars.
This author wrote several historical novels like Ragtime and Billy Bathgate. His novel The Book of Daniel is based on the son of the executed Rosenbergs.
Though he technically didn’t go to Kenyon--he went to Amherst instead--this author delivered a commencement address at Kenyon in 2005 that was adapted as the book This is Water. This author made liberal usage of endnotes in his Infinite Jest.
John (Michael) Green
E(dgar) L(awrence) Doctorow
David Foster Wallace (accept DFW)
This author wrote a play about a character who tries to give a lecture <em>On the Harmful Effects of Tobacco</em>, despite that character being a smoker. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian author, probably better known for a play about the selling of Madame Ranevskya’s title estate in The Cherry Orchard.
Though Chekhov described The Cherry Orchard as a comedy, this Russian directed it as a tragedy. This actor and director names a “system” of theater training that uses “emotional memory” and was used by the Actors Studio.
Chekhov also wrote this play about the actress Nina and the writer Trigorin, who waxes rhapsodic about the title bird.
Anton Chekhov
Constantin Stanislavski
The Seagull (or Chayka)
This author wrote the poem <em>Thyrsis</em> in memory of his friend Arthur Hugh Clough. For 10 points each:
Name this Victorian period poet whose best known poem was parodied by Anthony Hecht.
Hecht was parodying this poem by Matthew Arnold that opens “The sea is calm tonight.” It is written from the perspective of someone looking across the English Channel.
Guy Montag reads “Dover Beach” during this novel, emotionally troubling the people listening. The title of this novel by Ray Bradbury refers to the temperature at which paper burns.
Matthew Arnold
“Dover Beach”
Fahrenheit 451
At the end of this novel, “you” are abruptly whisked into a happy ending with Ludmilla. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that begins after the protagonist discovers he has only the first chapter of the title book. This novel notably makes use of the second person.
If on a winter’s night a traveler is a novel by this Italian, who also wrote a character literally split in two by a cannonball in The Cloven Viscount.
Previously a chemist before becoming a writer, Calvino also wrote this collection of science-based short stories. It’s narrated by “Qfwfq” and is sort of succeeded by the collection t zero.
If on a winter’s night a traveler
Italo Calvino
Cosmicomics
The epigraph of this poem quotes the Sibyl of Cumae as saying “I want to die,” and dedicates the poem to “the best blacksmith.” For 10 points each:
Name this long Modernist poem whose sections include “The Burial of the Dead” and “A Game of Chess.” It ends by quoting a Sanskrit mantra.
The Waste Land is a poem by this Anglo-American. This poet considered his conversion to Anglicanism in the poem Ash Wednesday.
Eliot also wrote this poem told from the perspective of an old man considering World War I. The speaker claims not to have been at the “hot gates,” and the poem ends “Thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season.”
The Waste Land
T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot
“Gerontion”
One of this author’s poems coined the term “Dark, Satanic Mills.” For 10 points each:
Name this English poet of “And did those feet in ancient time,” as well as more famous poems like “The Tyger” and “The Lamb.”
Blake included “The Lamb” as a “Song of Innocence” in one poetry collection, contrasting it with “The Tyger,” which was a “Song of [this phenomenon].”
A notebook extensively used by Blake later came to be owned by a poet of this surname. A poet of this surname wrote “The Blessed Damozel,” while his sister wrote the poem “Goblin Market.”
William Blake
Songs of Experience (accept Songs of Innocence and Experience Showing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul)
Rosetti (accept Dante Gabriel Rossetti or Christina Rossetti)
Name these things related to literary barons of the skies, for 10 points each:
The narrator of this French children’s book by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry is a pilot. After he crashes his plane in the desert, he meets the title royal character, who lives on an asteroid and falls in love with a rose.
This World War II pilot constantly invents excuses to get out of combat, which leads to him learning about a “catch-22” in the Joseph Heller novel he appears in.
The title character of this Michael Ondaatje novel is revealed as a Hungarian count, who suffers burns after the plane he’s flying catches fire.
The Little Prince
Yossarian
The English Patient
This author’s novel <em>God Help the Child</em> came out in April 2015. For 10 points each:
Name this American author who wrote about “Milkman” Dead III in Song of Solomon and the residents of the Bottom in Sula.
Morrison also wrote this novel about Sethe, who kills her infant child to save it from a life of slavery and is subsequently haunted by the title ghost. This book’s epigraph reads “Sixty Million and more” in reference to the slave trade.
In Morrison’s novel The Bluest Eye this character wishes to be white and have blue eyes. After being sexually assaulted by her father, this character eventually goes insane and believes she gets her wish.
Toni Morrison
Beloved
Pecola Breedlove (accept either or both names)
Name some things related to British children’s literature, for 10 points each:
Lewis Carroll originally told the nucleus of this book to Henry Liddell’s daughters. The title character follows a white rabbit and enjoys a nice tea party, though the Queen of Hearts ruins her fun.
This author originally described a character named “Peter Pan” in his book The Little White Bird, but he later premiered a distinct play about “the Boy Who Wouldn’t Grow Up.”
Hazel leads the protagonists of this book written from their former home to this book’s title location, where they rescue the inhabitants of Efrafa and battle General Woundwort.
Alice in Wonderland (or Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland)
J.M. Barrie (or Sir James Matthew Barrie, 1st Baronet)
Watership Down (the book is by Richard Adams)
The main character in this book has a wild dream about a “stranger-god.” For 10 points each:
Name this book about Gustav von Aschenbach, who dies of cholera after visiting the title city and becoming obsessed with the young boy Tadzio.
Death in Venice is a book by this German, who also wrote about Hans Castorp’s stay at a sanatorium in The Magic Mountain.
Mann wrote the story “The Clown,” about a monotonously depressed clown, while this other German author wrote the novel The Clown. This author described a family of architects in Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
Death in Venice
Thomas Mann
Heinrich Böll
They say Hollywood’s out of ideas, so answer some questions about when instead the books steal from Hollywood, for 10 points each:
A prison inmate uses a poster of Rita Hayworth to hide his escape in this author’s Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Nevertheless, it’s more frequent that books by this author like The Shining and Misery are made into movies.
Walker Percy’s The Moviegoer is set in this Southern city. Ignatius J. Reilly goes on a series of misadventures in this city in A Confederacy of Dunces, and Blanche Dubois moves to this city in A Streetcar Named Desire.
Rita Hayworth shows up again in this author’s Betrayed by Rita Hayworth. Two political prisoners tell each other movie plots to pass the time in this author’s Kiss of the Spider Woman.
Stephen (Edwin) King
New Orleans
Manuel Puig
The 2014 Booker Prize winner centers on the Australian doctor Dorrigo Evans and shares the title of this book. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese poetic travelogue that chronicles its author’s journeys from Edo to the northern region of Oku. It opens, “The months and days are the travellers of eternity.”
The Narrow Road to the Deep North is a work of this Japanese poet, who in one poem described the sound of a frog jumping into a pond. This poet frequently used a 17-syllable poetic form.
The aforementioned poetic form is this one, which uses a 5-7-5 format. This poetic form uses themes of nature and a “cutting word” that divides images.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North (or The Narrow Road to the Interior; accept Oku no Hosomichi)
Matsuo Bashō
haiku
This character appears in a 14th-century romance written by the Pearl Poet. For 10 points each:
Name this character who discovers that the Green Knight has been his host Sir Bertilak all along.
Sir Gawain is a knight in the court of King Arthur, a setting employed by this poet in his The Idylls of the King. This poet described a disastrous military maneuver in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
The Idylls of the King was based on this 1485 compilation of Arthurian tales by Thomas Mallory, which also provided the title of T.H. White’s other Arthurian novel The Once and Future King.
Sir Gawain
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Le Mort d’Arthur (or The Death of Arthur; accept exact title only)
After one character with this condition is sent to an insane asylum, his roommate, who also has this trait, moves in with the Kelly family. For 10 points each:
Name this condition that afflicts both John Singer and Spiros Antonapoulos in Carson Mccullers’ The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. In another story, Lucynell is a girl with this condition who marries a one-armed man named Shiftlet.
Shiftlet abandons Lucynell at a diner in this author’s story “The Life You Save May Be Your Own.” Julian takes a bus ride with his racist mother in this author’s “Everything That Rises Must Converge.”
Both Mccullers and O’Connor wrote in a style known as this American region’s “Gothic.” Margaret Mitchell examined antebellum society in this region in Gone with the Wind.
deaf-muteness (accept either underlined part; accept word forms; prompt on descriptions like “they can’t hear” or “they can’t talk”)
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
the American South (accept Southern Gothic)
In this story, the protagonist makes a deal with a group of Bashkirs, leading to a downfall that was earlier prophesied in a conversation with Satan. For 10 points each:
Name this story about the greedy peasant Pahom, who dies of exhaustion after trying to enclose a gigantic property on foot. The answer to the title question is, ironically, the six feet that comprise Pahom’s grave.
This novel by the same author as “How Much Land Does a Man Need” ends with the title character committing suicide under a train after an affair with Count Vronsky goes awry.
This Russian wrote both “How Much Land Does a Man Need?” and Anna Karenina. He expounded his ideas on nonviolent resistance in The Kingdom of God is Within You.
“How Much Land Does a Man Need?” (accept “Mnogo li cheloveku zemli nuzhno?”)
Anna Karenina
Leo (or Lev) (Nikolayevich) Tolstoy
At the end of this story, the narrator discusses a stone column in the mosque of Amr that has a similar function to central object of this story, but with sound. For 10 points each:
Name this story about an entity located in the nineteenth step of a basement staircase.
In this other story by the writer of the “The Aleph,” the German spy Yu Tsun murders Dr. Albert after learning about a book describing the infinite ways a timeline can unfold.
Both “The Aleph” and “The Garden of Forking Paths” are by this Argentinian author somewhat obsessed with infinity.
“The Aleph” (or “El Aleph”)
“The Garden of Forking Paths” (accept “El jardin de senderos que se bifurcan”)
Jorge Luis Borges
Name the following things related to 17th century French drama, for 10 points each:
This prolific French playwright described a religious hypocrite in Tartuffe and the idealistic Alceste in The Misanthrope.
The playwright Cyrano de Bergerac produced some nice work of his own, but was better known for being dramatized in a play 200 years later by Edmond Rostand. In that play, Cyrano was described as having an extremely large one of these body parts, which makes him very self-conscious.
Pierre Corneille [“cor-nay-uh”] was best known for his play about this legendary Spanish knight. That play about this character was criticized at the time for not obeying the traditional unities.
Molière (or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin)
nose (Ed’s note: let’s keep it PG, please)
Le Cid (or El Cid)
Name some members of the British literary group the Angry Young Men, for 10 points each:
This writer’s play Look Back in Anger led to the name of the Angry Young Men.
This writer described a meeting between two hitmen in The Dumbwaiter and a surreal celebration for the pianist Stanley in The Birthday Party.
A member of the Angry Young Men with this surname wrote the violence-filled play Saved. Another member, Kingsley Amis, wrote several books about a spy with this surname who was originally created by Ian Fleming.
John Osbourne
Harold Pinter
Bond (accept Edward Bond or James Bond)
A Penelope with this surname fictionalized the life of the poet Novalis in the novel <em>The Blue Flower</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this surname. Another woman with this surname wrote the semi-autobiographical Save Me the Waltz, in addition to being fictionalized as Nicole Diver in a novel about the psychiatrist Dick Diver.
Zelda Fitzgerald was married--often unhappily--to F. Scott Fitzgerald, who wrote this magnum opus about Nick Carraway and the title affluent party-thrower.
Gatsby’s pursuits of Daisy are stymied by this husband of hers, a bulky man who at one point throws a punch at his own mistress Myrtle Wilson.
Fitzgerald (prompt on “Sayre”)
The Great Gatsby
Tom Buchanan (accept either or both names)
In one poem, this writer accused men of wanting to possess the chaste Lucretia but pursuing the not-so-chaste Thaïs [TIE-is]. For 10 points each:
Name this nun and feminist poet. She is considered an influential figure in the Spanish Golden Age, even though she lived her entire life in Mexico.
Sor Juana’s reputation as a feminist rests largely on the aforementioned poem, which was directed at “Foolish men who” perform this action. Emile Zola penned an article during the Dreyfus Affair whose title mentions this action.
Sor Juana: Or, The Traps of Fate is a biography of Sor Juana written by this Mexican poet of the collection The Labyrinth of Solitude, which contains his poem “The Sunstone.”
Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz (accept either underlined portion; prompt on partial; accept Juana Inés de Asbaje y Ramírez de Santillana)
accuse (accept word forms; accept “Hombres necios que acusáis;” accept “J’accuse…!;” accept “I Accuse!...”)
Octavio Paz (Lozano)
A 2015 re-imagining of this author’s most famous novel centers on a half-Korean, half-American who lives in New York City. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote The Professor and Shirley. This author controversially blocked the republication of The Tenant of Wildfell Hall after its original author’s death.
Charlotte Brontё is best known, however, for this novel whose adaptations include Patricia Park’s Re-Jane and Jean Rhys’s Wide Sargasso Sea. The title woman of this novel eventually marries Edward Rochester.
Wide Sargasso Sea tells the early life of Bertha Mason, who marries Mr. Rochester but ends up confined in this location. A Feminist book of criticism by Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar is titled for Bertha’s living here.
Charlotte Brontё (prompt on partial answer; the original author of The Tenant of Wildfell Hall is Anne Brontё, Charlotte’s sister)
Jane Eyre
the attic (accept The Madwoman in the Attic; prompt on “house” and equivalents or “Thornfield Hall”)
Name some of the images used by William Carlos Williams, for 10 points each:
An eight-line poem by Williams asserts that “so much depends” upon a red one of these objects that is glazed with rain water and is “beside the white / chickens.”
In “This is Just To Say,” the speaker calls these fruits delicious, “so sweet,” and “so cold,” and asks for forgiveness for eating them out of the icebox.
Williams’s “Landscape with the Fall of Icarus” spends significant time observing the farmland in the foreground before calling one of these events “unnoticed” and saying “this was / Icarus drowning.”
wheelbarrow
plums
a splash
A book by Thomas More established this genre of fiction, deriving its name from the Greek for “no-place.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre of fiction that employs as a setting an ideal society, often set in the future.
This author’s New Atlantis describes the utopian island of Bensalem, which is centered on the scientific institution of Salomon’s House. He also wrote the philosophical tract Novum Organum.
In this American example of utopian literature written by Edward Bellamy, Julian West falls asleep in 1887 and wakes up in a utopic year 2000.
utopian (accept word forms)
Sir Francis Bacon
Looking Backward
Name these Russian poets, for 10 points each:
This man introduced a namesake sonnet style in his verse novel Eugene Onegin. He described a statue coming to life in the poem “The Bronze Horseman.”
25 poems supposedly written by this fictional character are included at the end of the novel he appears in. This doctor titles a book by Boris Pasternak.
As a young man, this man apparently wrote the poem “Morning.” More famously, this man was the subject of a satirical “epigram” by Osip Mandelstam and the lyrical cycle Requiem by Anna Akhmatova.
Alexander Pushkin
Yuri Zhivago (accept either or both names; accept Doctor Zhivago)
Joseph Stalin (or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili)
The narrator of this book engages in an intimate foot-mingling ceremony with the San Lorenzian Mona. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the substance ice-nine ultimately leads to the freezing of the entire Earth. It’s named after a children’s string game.
Cat’s Cradle is a novel by this American, who repeatedly inserted birdcalls of “Poo-tee-weet?” within his novel about the unstuck-in-time Billy Pilgrim, Slaughterhouse-Five.
In this Vonnegut novel the space explorer Malachi Constant travels to the title moon of Saturn and meets Winston Niles Rumfoord, as well as an alien whose spaceship is powered by the “Universal Will to Become.”
Cat’s Cradle
Kurt Vonnegut
The Sirens of Titan
Answer the following about references to Samson in British literature, for 10 points each:
The marriage between Rawdon Crowley and Becky Sharp is compared to Samson and Delilah in this “novel without a hero,” which contains an extensive portrayal of the Battle of Waterloo.
This blind English poet wrote the drama Samson Agonistes, but he’s more famous for depicting the fall of Lucifer from heaven in Paradise Lost.
In Geoffrey Chaucer’s The Canterbury Tales, this horribly depressing dude includes the tale of Samson as one of 17 tragic stories before the Knight cuts him off for being such a buzzkill.
Vanity Fair: A Novel Without a Hero (by William Makepeace Thackeray)
John Milton
the Monk (accept “The Monk’s Tale”)
A character in this story spurns the suggestion of wearing flowers, which eventually leads to 10 years of labor. For 10 points each:
Name this story that ends with Madame Forestier telling Madame Loisel that the title object “was fake! At most they were worth five hundred francs!”
“The Necklace” is a story by this French author, best known for twist endings like the ones in “The Necklace” or “The Ball of Fat.”
This Maupassant story ends with the main character dying, having gone insane from no one believing that he really just picked up the title item, instead of a missing pocketbook.
“The Necklace” (or “The Diamond Necklace”)
Guy de Maupassant
“The Piece of String”
Name the Mark Twain characters, for 10 points each:
This character sails a raft down the Mississippi with the slave Jim, where he meets the shady Duke and “Dolphin.” In an earlier novel, he engages in some fun with Tom Sawyer.
Hank Morgan is described as this type of character “in King Arthur’s Court” after receiving a blow to the head and travelling through time.
This character uses fingerprints to prove that Tom Driscoll has murdered and robbed his rich uncle.
Huckleberry Finn (accept either or both names)
a Connecticut Yankee (prompt on partial answer; don’t accept or prompt on anything else)
Pudd’nhead Wilson (or David Wilson; in either case, accept either or both names)
Karl kills his love Amalia at the end of this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Franz tricks his father into disinheriting Karl, leading Karl to join the title outlaws.
The Robbers is a work of this German Sturm und Drang writer, who described the title bowman’s refusal to bow before a cap and successful shooting of an apple in William Tell. He also wrote the “Ode to Joy” poem.
Schiller wrote a fairly straightforward play about this historical figure. Other treatments of this figure include Jean Anouilh’s [“on-WEE”] The Lark and a play by Brecht describing this character “in the Stockyards.”
The Robbers (or Die Rauber)
Friedrich Schiller
St. Joan of Arc (prompt on “Maid of Orleans”)
This character is born with an extra finger, and as a child he lets a neighbor’s calf drown. For 10 points each:
Name this character who marries into the Tulsi family and lives most of his life at Hanuman House, before desiring to become independent and build his own dwelling.
This Trinidadian-born author wrote A House for Mr Biswas. This author of A Bend in the River has attracted controversy for his remarks about female authors, having particular disdain for Jane Austen.
Naipaul’s Beyond Belief and Among the Believers are set in countries like Iran and Indonesia and examine fundamentalism in this religion.
Mr Biswas [or Mohun Biswas]
Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
Islam [or Muslims] &lt;SR Literature&gt;
The narrator of this poem describes his activity as “just another outdoor game.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that states that “Good fences make good neighbors.”
This American poet wrote “Mending Wall,” “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” and “The Road Not Taken.”
In “Mending Wall,” the speaker has this kind of tree. This tree appears in another Robert Frost poem where the speaker’s two-pointed ladder is “sticking through a tree toward heaven still.”
“Mending Wall”
Robert Frost
apple tree &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Answer the following about the history of roller coasters. For 10 points each:
The first roller coasters, or “Russian Mountains,” were built under the reign of this Russian ruler who was supposedly fooled by “Potemkin villages.”
LaMarcus Adna Thompson, often credited as the “father of the roller coaster,” opened one of his first coasters in this Brooklyn neighborhood, America’s most visited amusement area before World War I.
The first “Golden Age” of the roller coaster ended with the beginning of this 1930s economic downturn that included the Dust Bowl.
Catherine the Great [or Catherine II or Yekaterina Alexeyevna or Yekaterina II]
Coney Island
Great Depression &lt;AP History&gt;
Answer some questions about the voyages of Sindbad the Sailor. For 10 points each:
During Sindbad’s second voyage, he ties himself to a sheep carcass in order to escape a valley filled with diamonds and these animals. In his sixth voyage, Sindbad receives a bed made from the skin of one of these animals.
Earlier in his second voyage, Sindbad escapes an island by tying himself to the leg of this giant mythical bird. Sindbad and his crew are attacked by this bird in his fifth voyage when his crew breaks one of its eggs.
The Seven Voyages of Sindbad appear in this collection in which Scheherazade tells stories to King Shahryar for a really long time.
snakes [or serpents]
roc [or rukh]
One Thousand and One Nights [or The Arabian Nights or Kitāb ’alf layla wa-layla] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this novel overdoses on sleeping draught just before Lawrence Selden arrives to finally propose. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Lily Bart’s ostracism from New York’s high society.
The House of Mirth was written by this author of The Age of Innocence.
A less successful suicide attempt causes Mattie to become paralyzed after trying to commit suicide by sled with the title character in this other Wharton novel.
The House of Mirth
Edith Wharton
Ethan Frome &lt;ES Literature&gt;
A character in this novel buys eggs for five cents and sells them for three, but still manages to make a profit. For 10 points each:
Name this satirical novel set in a camp on Pianosa, which follows the bomber Yossarian. Its title refers to a situation that one cannot escape because of contradictory rules.
This man wrote Portrait of an Artist, as an Old Man, in which an elderly author attempts to write a novel as good as those he had written earlier, in addition to Catch-22.
This character, who bears an uncanny resemblance to Henry Fonda, was made squadron commander by Colonel Cathcart. He can only be visited in his office when he is not there.
Catch-22
Joseph Heller
Major Major Major Major &lt;SR Literature&gt;
In a novel by this author, a dog recounts the cleric Nusret Hoja’s trip to the Bayazid Mosque, where he declares that drinking coffee is a sin. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about a controversy over headscarves in Snow. He received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2006.
This Pamuk novel’s many narrators include a gold coin, Death, and a tree. This novel begins with the murder of Elegant Effendi, and chronicles the relationship between Black and Shekure.
Pamuk is from this country, one of whose cities is the subject of his memoir Istanbul: Memories and the City.
Orhan Pamuk
My Name is Red [or Benim Adım Kırmızı]
Turkey &lt;SR Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this work is rejected by Tatyana and is compared to Byron’s Childe Harold. For 10 points each:
Name this work in which the title character kills Lensky in a duel after dancing with Olga at her sister’s name-day party.
This Russian author wrote Boris Godunov and Eugene Onegin.
Pushkin wrote this narrative poem where Yevgeny curses a statue of Peter the Great after being unable to find his girlfriend Parasha, causing the statue to come to life and chase Yevgeny through St. Petersburg.
Eugene Onegin [or Yevgeny Onegin]
Alexander Pushkin
The Bronze Horseman: A Petersburg Tale [accept The Copper Horseman or Mednyy vsadnik: Peterburgskaya povest] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This novel ends with the protagonist in an insane asylum after he is falsely convicted of killing Sister Dorothea. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose protagonist decides to stop growing at the age of three.
The Tin Drum is the first novel in this German author’s Danzig Trilogy, which also includes Cat and Mouse and Dog Years.
This war forms the backdrop of The Tin Drum and Cat and Mouse. Atrocities committed by one side of this war are described in Elie Wiesel’s Night.
The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel]
Günter Grass
World War II &lt;ES Literature&gt;
The final poem in this collection repeats “in you everything sank!” For 10 points each:
Name this poetry collection that includes “White Bee” and “Drunk with Pines.” The penultimate poem of this collection begins “Tonight I can write the saddest lines.”
This poet wrote Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair and included his poem “The Heights of Machu Picchu” in his collection Canto General.
Neruda, like fellow Chileans Gabriela Mistral and Nicanor Parra, wrote in this language. Federico Garcia Lorca used this language to write a lament on the death of a bullfighter.
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair [or Veinte poemas de amor y una canción desesperada]
Pablo Neruda [or Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]
Spanish &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Put those hours of watching History Channel to good use by naming the following cryptids, which are creatures whose existence has not yet been confirmed. For 10 points each:
This large humanoid beast roams the Himalayas in Nepal and Tibet. It’s also known as the “Abominable Snowman.”
This cryptid is an insectlike humanoid with wings. It has supposedly been sighted in Point Pleasant, West Virginia.
A number of sea monsters, such as the “sea monk” and the “Alecton monster,” were probably just these enormous mollusks, which have the largest eyes of any living being.
the Yeti
the Mothman
giant squid [or colossal squid; prompt on “kraken”] &lt;AP Misc&gt;
During a production of this play, a man with a lantern and dog represents “Moonshine.” For 10 points each:
Name this play about a pair of lovers that communicate between a crack in a wall and end up killing themselves after a wacky misunderstanding involving a lion and some bloody cloth.
Pyramus and Thisbe is a play within this Shakespeare play in which Puck serves the king of the fairies. This play ends with the double wedding of Hermia and Lysander and Helena and Demetrius.
That king of fairies is this character, who sends Puck around the world to find a magic plant that will make his queen, Titania, fall in love with some random animal.
Pyramus and Thisbe [or anything referring to both characters; prompt on partial answers]
A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Oberon &lt;ES Literature&gt;
In this play, a character discusses what makes a “man of magnitude.” For 10 points each:
Name this play whose title character becomes more and more bigoted and eventually spits on the servant Sam.
“Master Harold”… and the Boys was written by this South African playwright whose other works include Blood Knot.
In Master Harold, Sam is helping Willie prepare for a contest in this activity. This activity is performed at various balls in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.
“Master Harold”… and the Boys
Athol Fugard
dance [or ballroom dancing] &lt;SR Literature&gt;
In a novel from this country, Nathan is able to father five sons after his wife is treated for infertility. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose authors include Arundhati Roy, and Kamala Markandaya, who wrote that novel, Nectar in a Sieve.
This very long Indian novel chronicles the efforts of Rupa Mehra to find the title person for her daughter Lata. Its sequel is due to be released next year.
This Indian author wrote An Equal Music, which details the affair between Michael and Julia, and the verse novel The Golden Gate, in addition to A Suitable Boy.
India
A Suitable Boy
Vikram Seth &lt;SR Literature&gt;
In one of this novel’s chapters, a professor picks up a ringing telephone while jogging past an empty house. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the protagonist and Ludmilla are thwarted in their attempts to read multiple novels, including the title one.
This Italian author wrote If on a winter’s night a traveler and Invisible Cities.
Invisible Cities follows a conversation between this historical Italian traveller and Kublai Khan. This man’s travels to China are discussed in a book written down by Rustichello da Pisa.
If on a winter’s night a traveler [or Se una notte d’invierno un viaggiatore]
Italo Calvino
Marco Polo &lt;ES Literature&gt;
In this short story collection, Amasa Delano encounters the San Dominick, which, unbeknownst to him, has been taken over from the title captain by the slave Babo. For 10 points each:
Name this short story collection that contains “Benito Cereno,” “The Lightning-Rod Man,” and “The Encantadas.”
One story from The Piazza Tales follows this character that works with Nippers and Turkey and likes to repeat the phrase “I would prefer not to.”
“Bartleby, the Scrivener” is by this author whose book Moby Dick opens with the line “Call me Ishmael.”
The Piazza Tales
Bartleby [accept Bartleby, the Scrivener]
Herman Melville &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Helen Burns becomes friends with the protagonist while they both attend the Lowood School. For 10 points each:
Name this work in which the title character falls in love with Edward Rochester at Thornfield Hall.
This author wrote Jane Eyre, Shirley, and Villette.
This novel by Jean Rhys acts as a prequel to Jane Eyre. It follows the life of Antoinette Cosway before she becomes known as Bertha Mason and burns down Thornfield Hall.
Jane Eyre
Charlotte Brontë [accept Currer Bell; prompt on “Brontë”]
Wide Sargasso Sea &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Two groups in this novel have a dispute over the proper way to crack a soft-boiled egg. For 10 points each:
Name this 1726 satirical novel, in which the title character visits the diminutive Lilliputians, the giant Brobdingnagians, and the Houyhnhnms, a group of talking horses.
Contrasted with the intelligent Houyhnhnms are these dirty, stupid beings. Gulliver is shocked to discover how similar their greedy behavior is to humans in Britain.
Gulliver’s Travels was written by this Irishman. He also wrote the essay A Modest Proposal, in which he satirically advocated that poor people should sell their children to be eaten.
Gulliver’s Travels
Yahoos
Jonathan Swift &lt;SR Literature&gt;
In a novel by this author, John Grady Cole and Lacey Rawlins encounter the horse thief Jimmy Blevins. For 10 points each:
Name this author of All the Pretty Horses who also wrote about a father and son travelling around a post-apocalyptic world in The Road.
McCarthy’s Border Trilogy is set around this international border. This border is referred to by the title of Borderlands/La Frontera, a work of Chicano literature by Gloria Anzaldua.
In this other McCarthy novel, “the kid” joins the scalp-hunting Glanton gang and encounters the hairless Judge Holden.
Cormac McCarthy
Mexico–United States border [or Mexican border; prompt on just “United States border”]
Blood Meridian or the Evening Redness in the West &lt;ES Literature&gt;
In one poem in this collection the speaker “wakened was with thundering noise / And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice” warning about the title event. For 10 points each:
Name this poetry collection that contains “Four Monarchies” and “Verses Upon the Burning of our House.”
This American poet wrote The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America and was the first female poet to be published in North America.
This “dear and loving” person is addressed in a Bradstreet poem that states “I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold.”
The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America
Anne Bradstreet
her husband [accept Simon Bradstreet] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Billy Bones dies of a stroke at the Admiral Benbow Inn in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Jim Hawkins and Dr. Livesey go on a voyage to the title location aboard the Hispaniola.
This author created the pirate Long John Silver in Treasure Island, and also wrote Kidnapped.
Characters in Treasure Island are presented with this thing when they are about to be deposed as leader. The one presented to Long John Silver is from a torn out page of the bible.
Treasure Island
Robert Louis Balfour Stevenson
the black spot &lt;ES Literature&gt;
On the way to a fair the title character of this work auctions off his wife and daughter to a sailor. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Michael Henchard, who swears off drinking and takes the title position after making that deal with the sailor Richard Newson.
This author of Tess of the d’Urbervilles wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge.
This character was the lover of the Mayor of Casterbridge but eventually marries Donald Farfrae. This character dies after seeing a “skimmity-ride” depicting her relationship with Michael Henchard.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
Thomas Hardy
Lucetta Templeman [accept either name] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This poem describes a man as “Marble-heavy, a bag full of God, Ghastly statue with one gray toe big as a Frisco seal.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem which references Nazi Germany by referring to the title character as “Herr Doktor” and a “man with a Meinkampf look.”
“Daddy” is by this Confessional poet who also wrote about Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar.
Another poem in Ariel claims that these flowers “eat my oxygen” during her stay in a hospital. Alexander Dumas wrote a novel about a gardening competition to produce the title black kind of this flower.
“Daddy”
Sylvia Plath
tulips &lt;ES Literature&gt;
The ruler of this city demands the scepter of Zeus from the envoys Poseidon, Heracles, and Triballus. For 10 points each:
Name this city in the sky that Hoopoe and Procne order their companions to build in order to blockade the gods and rule over humanity.
Cloud Cuckoo Land is created by the title creatures in this play that ends with the defeat of Heracles causing Pisthetaerus to be proclaimed king of the gods.
The Birds and Lysistrata were written by this ancient Greek comic playwright who also wrote The Frogs and The Clouds.
Cloud Cuckoo Land [or Nephelokokkygia]
The Birds [or Ornithes]
Aristophanes &lt;ES Literature&gt;
An essay in this book discusses the concept of machismo as starting with the Conquistadors’ relationships with native women. For 10 points each:
Name this essay collection that analyzes Mexican cultures and includes the essays “The Conquest and Colonialism” and “The Sons of La Malinche.”
This author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude as well as the poem “Sunstone.”
An essay in The Labyrinth of Solitude that discusses the importance of fiestas in Mexican culture is named for this Mexican holiday that has traditions like sugar skulls.
The Labyrinth of Solitude [or El laberiento de la soledad]
Octavio Paz Lozano
“The Day of the Dead” [or “El dia de los muertos”] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this work smokes and drinks coffee in front of his mother’s coffin. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the indifferent Meursault is sentenced to death after senselessly killing an Arab man.
This existential French author wrote The Stranger as well as The Plague and The Fall.
Camus also wrote this philosophical essay that opposes suicide despite the search for meaning in the world being futile.
The Stranger [or L’Étranger]
Albert Camus
The Myth of Sisyphus [or Le Mythe de Sisyphe] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
It is said that the title character of a play by this author “always styles her hair the same way.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of a play in which the Smiths and the Martins speak in non-sequiturs after a visit from the Fire Chief. This author of The Bald Soprano also used the recurring character Berenger.
Ionesco’s The Bald Soprano is an example of this style of theater exemplified by the work of Vaclav Havel and Samuel Beckett. It usually features bizarre nonsense and emphasizes the meaningless of the universe.
This other absurdist playwright wrote about Irma running a brothel during a revolution in his play The Balcony.
Eugène Ionesco
absurdism [accept Theater of the Absurd]
Jean Genet &lt;ES Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this work gets in trouble after proclaiming loyalty to King George III. For 10 points each:
Name this story about the title character spending more time than he expected in the Catskill Mountains with the ghosts of Henry Hudson’s crew.
This author wrote the short stories Rip Van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
Irving wrote this collection of stories and essays after visiting Spain in 1828. They are named for the palace in Granada where he stayed during his trip.
Rip Van Winkle
Washington Irving
Tales of the Alhambra &lt;ES Literature&gt;
A friar in this work uses the motto “Do what thou wilt” for his “anti-church,” the Abbey of Theleme. For 10 points each:
Name this series of five books by François Rabelais that involves one of the title character’s defeat of Picrochole’s army and the other title character’s adventures with his friend Panurge.
Gargantua and Pantagruel are these kinds of creatures. In the fairytale Jack and the Beanstalk, one of these creatures exclaims “fee-fi-fo-fum!”
Gargantua was born out of this part of his mother. This part of a bull is given to Romero in The Sun Also Rises.
Gargantua and Pantagruel
giants [or equivalents]
her left ear &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Answer some questions about fruit in poetry. For 10 points each:
This poet wrote about a candle that “will not last the night” probably because it “burns at both ends” in her poem “First Fig.”
This poet wrote about eating plums “that were in the icebox” and “were delicious / so sweet / and so cold” in his poem “This Is Just to Say.”
The speaker confuses the words for “persimmons” and “precision” in a poem by an author of this ethnicity. Immigrants of this ethnicity are the subject of The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan and FOB by David Hwang.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
William Carlos Williams
Chinese-Americans [or anything indicating immigrants from China] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
During a riot sparked by Ras the Exhorter, the protagonist of this novel falls down a manhole. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose nameless title character steals electricity from the Monopolated Light &amp; Power Company and joins the Brotherhood.
This author of Juneteenth wrote Invisible Man.
This character in Invisible Man is the leader of the Brotherhood. During a speech on the goals of the Brotherhood, it is revealed that this character has a glass eye.
Invisible Man
Ralph Waldo Ellison
Brother Jack &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Stories in this collection include “A Temporary Matter” and “Sexy.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection. In its title story, the tour guide Mr. Kapasi saves Bobby from a monkey attack.
This Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian-American author of The Namesake wrote Interpreter of Maladies.
In The Namesake, the protagonist’s parents name him after Nikolai Gogol, an author who wrote “The Overcoat” in this language. This language was used to write War and Peace.
Interpreter of Maladies
Jhumpa Lahiri
Russian &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This novel can be read in two different orders and has 99 “expendable” chapters. For 10 points each:
Name this work that follows Horacio Oliveira’s search for his mistress La Maga and his time working at a hospital and a circus along with Traveler and Talita.
This author of Hopscotch called it a “counter-novel.” He also wrote the short story “The Axolotl.”
Cortázar hailed from this South American country, which is known for its “gaucho” style of literature. Other authors from this country include Jorge Luis Borges and Manuel Puig.
Hopscotch [or Rayuela]
Julio Cortázar
Argentina &lt;AP Literature&gt;
This poem describes the title objects as “older than the flow of human blood in human veins.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose speaker’s “soul has grown deep” like the title objects.
“The Negro Speaks of Rivers” appears in this collection of poems. The title poem in this collection describes a man “droning a drowsy syncopated tune” who sings “Ain’t got nobody in all this world, / Ain’t got nobody but ma self.”
Langston Hughes was part of this “renaissance” of African American writers from a New York City neighborhood.
“The Negro Speaks of Rivers”
The Weary Blues
the Harlem Renaissance &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Answer the following about the usage of deus ex machina in literature. For 10 points each:
Although it is continually stated that the ships of Antonio, the title character of this Shakespeare play, have crashed and sunk, it is finally revealed by Portia that they have all arrived in the docks.
President Lindbergh suddenly disappears at the end of The Plot Against America, a novel by this American author. He wrote the novel American Pastoral about Nathan Zuckerman.
The narrator of this short story by Poe is condemned by the Spanish Inquisition but is eventually rescued out of the blue by a French general just before he falls from one of the title objects into the other.
The Merchant of Venice
Philip Milton Roth
“The Pit and the Pendulum” &lt;AP Literature&gt;
Answer the following about days of the week in literature. For 10 points each:
This American poet described how “casual flocks of pigeons make / Ambiguous undulations” in his poem “Sunday Morning.”
This title character of a Daniel Defoe novel saves a Carib man from his death and names him Friday while living on a island.
This American poet wrote the poem “Ash Wednesday” after he converted to Anglicanism. His poem “The Hollow Men” also dealt with his religious views.
Wallace Stevens
Robinson Crusoe
Thomas Stearns Eliot &lt;AP Literature&gt;
In this novel, Miss Emily is a “guardian” headmistress of the Hailsham boarding school. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Kathy and Tommy are revealed to be clones manufactured for organ donation.
This Japanese-British author of The Remains of the Day also wrote Never Let Me Go.
In The Remains of the Day, Stevens, a person of this profession, claims that conversation is the “key to human warmth.” PG Wodehouse wrote about Jeeves, a person of this profession who aids Bertie Wooster.
Never Let Me Go
Kazuo Ishiguro
butler [or estate caretaker; or valet] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
This character allows his brother-in-law Gonzalo Bernal to be killed by a firing squad. For 10 points each:
Name this corrupt Mexican politician and husband of Catalina who is asked by a priest to reveal the location of his will, while he lies on his deathbed thinking about Jesus.
Artemio Cruz was created by this Mexican writer of Terra Nostra and Christopher Unborn.
In his novel The Old Gringo, Fuentes speculated about what happened to this American writer of “Chickamauga” and “Moxon’s Master” after his sudden disappearance in Mexico.
Artemio Cruz [accept either underlined name]
Carlos Fuentes Macías
Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce &lt;AP Literature&gt;
An author from this country wrote <em>The Kingdom of This World</em>, the introduction to which put forth the concept of magical realism. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Alejo Carpentier. A poet from this Latin American country inspired the patriotic song “Guantanamera.”
“Guantanamera” was inspired based on a poem by this writer, the national hero of Cuba, who wrote revolutionary poetry during the Cuban War of Independence.
In an essay titled “Our” this region, Martí wrote that the history of this region should be taught by universities in this region. A patriotic song by Irving Berlin asks God to bless this region.
Cuba
José Julián Martí Pérez [prompt on “Julián Pérez”]
America [do not accept “United States”] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
The title object of this novel is created by Basil Hallward and grows uglier as it absorbs the sins of its owner. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Lord Henry Wotton inspires the protagonist to live a hedonistic lifestyle. That protagonist dies after stabbing the title object.
This author wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray. His relationship with Alfred Douglas got him imprisoned for gross indecency in 1895.
Oscar Wilde wrote this poem about the execution of a fellow prisoner in the title location. This poem states that “Yet each man kills the thing he loves” and that “there is no sleep when men must weep.”
The Picture of Dorian Gray
Oscar Wilde
The Ballad of Reading Gaol &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This character’s wife spreads a bunch of gold coins on her bed and rolls around in them. For 10 points each:
Name this dentist who ends up in a desert handcuffed to the corpse of his best friend Marcus Schouler after beating his wife Trina to death in a whiskey-fuelled rage.
McTeague was created by this American author of The Octopus and The Pit.
The Octopus is subtitled a “story of” this US state, the final destination of the Joad family in Grapes of Wrath. Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty meet Remi Boncoeur in this state.
Dr. McTeague
Benjamin Franklin “Frank” Norris, Jr.
California &lt;AP Literature&gt;
The title animals of this poem “search / in the moonlight for a bite to eat.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that likens the slow decay of the narrator’s small hometown to the night foraging of an animal with an “ostrich tail.”
“Skunk Hour” is the last poem in this author’s collection Life Studies, which marked an important step in the emergence of Confessional poetry. He also wrote “For the Union Dead.”
Both Lowell’s poem “For the Union Dead” and Allen Tate’s poem “Ode to the Confederate Dead” discuss the aftermath of this war.
“Skunk Hour”
Robert Lowell
American Civil War &lt;AP Literature&gt;
In this novel, Disko Troop leads the crew of the schooner <em>We’re Here</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which a Portuguese sailor named Manuel rescues and humbles a 15-year-old millionaire named Harvey Cheyne, Jr.
This Anglo-Indian poet of “Gunga Din” and “If—” wrote novels such as Captains Courageous and Kim.
This title mongoose of a Kipling short story keeps a family’s baby safe from two snakes named Naga and Nagaina.
Captains Courageous
Joseph Rudyard Kipling
Rikki-tikki-tavi &lt;AP Literature&gt;
After the title structure of this play is built, Bono buys a refrigerator for his wife. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Troy, a driver of a garbage truck, reminisces about his days as a baseball player and has an affair with Alberta, who dies while giving birth to Raynell.
Fences is the sixth installment of this African-American playwright’s magnum opus The Pittsburgh Cycle.
In this fourth play of The Pittsburgh Cycle, Boy Willie and Berniece argue over the fate of the title family heirloom, which survives from the time when their ancestors were slaves at a sharecropping plantation.
Fences
August Wilson
The Piano Lesson &lt;AP Literature&gt;
This wizard, who first appears in <em>The Hobbit</em>, tells Frodo that he must destroy the One Ring and accompanies him on his journey. For 10 points each:
Name this companion of Bilbo and Frodo Baggins who dies in his “Grey” form but is reincarnated in his “White” form.
Gandalf dies in a fight with a Balrog at this location in the Misty Mountains. The mines of this location were the site of a failed dwarf colony led by Balin.
Years before the events of The Lord of the Rings, the dwarf king Thrór went to Moria, where he was decapitated by this orc, the father of Bolg.
Gandalf [accept Mithrandir, Tharkûn, Olórin, or Incánus]
Moria [accept Khazad-dûm or the Dwarrowdelf]
Azog &lt;NC Trash&gt;
The first prize for a sales contest in this play is a Cadillac Eldorado, and the second prize is a prize is a pair of steak knives. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which four real estate salesmen con foolish Chicagoans into buying undesirable real estate.
This American Jewish playwright of Glengarry Glen Ross also penned Speed-the-Plow.
This profane main character of Glengarry Glen Ross smooth-talks James Lingk into buying real estate and discovers that Dave Moss and Shelly Levene staged a burglary.
Glengarry Glen Ross
David Alan Mamet
Richard “Ricky” Roma [accept any underlined name] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
One character in this novel is followed by a flock of starlings everywhere he goes. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off of Europe, eventually causing the meetup of five people and a dog named Ardent.
The Stone Raft was written by this Portuguese neglector of punctuation who also wrote about a doctor’s wife who remains untouched by an epidemic of blindness.
One of Saramago’s last novels covered the journey of Solomon, one of these animals, from Lisbon to Vienna. Edgar Rice Burroughs wrote about one of these animals named Tantor who befriends Kerchak and Tarzan.
The Stone Raft [or A Jangada de Pedra]
José de Sousa Saramago
elephant [or elefante] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
The narrator of this poem states that “unless statistics lie” the title character “was more brave than me:more blond than you.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose title character is thrown into a dungeon because he is a “conscientious object-or.”
This author or “I sing of Olaf glad and big” also wrote the poem “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” He is known for his creative usage of capitalization and punctuation.
cummings was influenced by the work of this American author who wrote the line “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.” She coined the term “Lost Generation” and wrote an “autobiography” of her lover Alice Toklas.
“I sing of Olaf glad and big”
e e cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
Gertrude Stein &lt;AP Literature&gt;
In this novel, a meteor flies through the sky while three people stand together on a scaffold. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which a man goes by the name Roger Chillingworth in order to find out who the father of Pearl is.
The Scarlet Letter is by this author of The House of the Seven Gables.
In this short story by Hawthorne, the scientist Aylmer becomes increasingly obsessed with the title feature of his fiancée Georgiana. The removal of that feature leads to Georgiana’s death.
The Scarlet Letter
Nathaniel Hawthorne
The Birth-Mark &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Topics discussed in this work that have nothing to do with the plot include convents and the construction of sewers. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which a criminal uses the alias Monsieur Madeleine while he is being hunted by the police inspector Javert.
Les Misérables was written by this author of The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
In Les Misérables, Enjolras leads this group of revolutionary students whose name is a pun on the French word for “lowered.”
Les Misérables
Victor Hugo
the Friends of the ABC [or Les Amis de l’ABC] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This novel is set 632 years “After Ford.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel that ends when John the Savage hangs himself after being introduced to the “utopian” world by the Alphas Bernard Marx and Lenina Crowne.
Brave New World is by this author who also wrote Crome Yellow and Point Counter Point.
In Brave New World, Bernard Marx is transferred to this country by the director. In Journey to the Center of the Earth, Professor Lidenbrock and his nephew Axel travels down a volcano in this country.
Brave New World
Aldous Huxley
Iceland &lt;ES Literature&gt;
This story’s protagonist tries to free a woman who she sees crawling on all fours in the title thing. For 10 points each:
Name this Charlotte Perkins Gilman story in which a woman goes insane while undergoing the rest cure in a gaudily decorated room.
“The Yellow Wallpaper” was partly a response to the methods of Silas Weir Mitchell, a doctor and author who set Hugh Wynne in this city. The protagonist moves to this city in Benjamin Franklin’s autobiography.
“The Yellow Wallpaper” has been collected with The Country of the Pointed Firs, a book set in a Maine fishing village by this other female author of the late 19th century.
“The Yellow Wallpaper”
Philadelphia
Sarah Orne Jewett &lt;JB Literature&gt;
A novel by this author opens with Patrick watching some immigrant loggers ice-skating. For 10 points each:
Name this author of In the Skin of the Lion who wrote a novel in which Hana cares for a Geographic Society explorer whose romance with Katherine Clifton almost got him killed in a plane crash.
Michael Ondaatje is a resident of this country, which is also home to Margaret Atwood and the “Southern Ontario Gothic” style of Alice Munro.
Ondaatje’s Coming Through Slaughter centers on musician Buddy Bolden, who lives in this city. This city is the setting of a play in which Blanche DuBois states “I have always relied on the kindness of strangers.”
Michael Ondaatje
Canada
New Orleans &lt;JB Literature&gt;
This work is written in haibun. For 10 points each:
Name this work whose opening line is “The months and days are the travelers of eternity.” It is a diary of the author’s travels from Edo to Oku.
Matsuo Bashō used a combination of prose and this poetic form that consists of three phrases of 5–7–5 syllables in order to write The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
One haiku by Bashō is about the effect of one of these creatures jumping into an old, silent pond.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North [or Oku no Hosomichi; accept The Narrow Road to the Interior]
haiku
frog &lt;ES Literature&gt;
Previously, this award was only given to citizens of the Commonwealth, Ireland, and Zimbabwe, but policy was amended in 2013 to include any novel written in English and published in the UK. For 10 points each:
Name this prize, first awarded in 1969, whose winners have included Salman Rushdie, Nadine Gordimer, and J. M. Coetzee twice.
This author of Three Cheers for the Paraclete was shortlisted for the Booker for his novel The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith.
Keneally won the Booker in 1982 for a novel titled for the “Ark” of this factory owner who saved Jews during the Holocaust. It was adapted by Steven Spielberg into a film titled for this character’s “List.”
Booker Prize [or Man Booker Prize]
Thomas Keneally
Oskar Schindler &lt;SR Literature&gt;
