Lady Harpy Harraden is in love with Sir Spaniel Lilyliver in the play ‘Where there's a Will there’s a Way’, a parody of Restoration comedy within a play within this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Miss La Trobe directs a ‘pageant of England’ that ends with mirrors being held up to the audience while a gramophone recording tells them to consider themselves.
Between the Acts was the last novel by this author, who had previously written about the Ramsay family in To the Lighthouse.
The penultimate scene of the pageant focuses on a group of people taking part in one of these events. In another novel, Mrs Bates is mocked at one of these events on Box Hill.
Between the Acts
Virginia Woolf
picnic [prompt on day trip or similar] &lt;AP&gt;
Jacques of Liège defended the music of the period described by this term in his <em>Speculum musicae</em>, which praised the music of Franco of Cologne. For 10 points each:
Give this term. Johannes de Garlandia was another music theorist of the period described by this term, as was the writer of the manuscript known as Anonymous IV.
Garland’s De mensurabili musica is the earliest western attempt at creating notation for this aspect of music. It may be contrasted with neumes, which notate relative pitch.
The period of the ars antiqua focuses on this school of polyphony centred on its namesake Parisian cathedral. The main work associated with this school was the Magnus Liber, compiled by composers including Léonin and Pérotin.
ars antiqua or ars veterum or ars vetus
rhythm or rhythmic mode
Notre-Dame school &lt;AP&gt;
While playing this game against the reigning world champion, Dr B. is driven insane as he remembers being kept in solitary confinement by the Nazis. For 10 points each:
Name this game, which titles a novella by Stefan Zweig. Dr B. is eventually restored to his senses after he makes an incorrect statement about giving check with a bishop in this game.
This author wrote The Luzhin Defence, featuring a chess player who ‘abandon[s] the game’ by climbing out of a window. This author included a chess problem they composed alongside sketches of a Swiss-French governess in their autobiography.
In this novel, the criminal gang leader Fischerle [FEE-sher-leh] dreams of travelling to America to become a chess champion. He attempts to con this novel’s protagonist, Peter Kien, in Vienna.
chess [or Schach; prompt on The Royal Game]
Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov
Auto-da-Fé [accept The Blinding or Die Blendung] [by Elias Canetti] &lt;AH&gt;
Femi Osofisan adapted this play to make the title character a nineteenth-century Yoruba princess. For 10 points each:
Name this play. Two prison inmates rehearse this play in a different play, and Winston tries to pull out after fearing that he will be humiliated by playing its female title role.
John and Winston rehearse a performance of Antigone in The Island, a work by this playwright. This playwright directed a performance of Orestes in Cape Town, and also wrote “Master Harold”…and the Boys.
Fugard follows classical tradition by using a small number of characters in this play, in which tension develops between the half-brothers Morris and Zachariah due to their slightly different skin colours.
Antigone
Harold Athol Lanigan Fugard
Blood Knot &lt;AH&gt;
This author wrote about the young African woman Sissie, who travels to Germany to ‘better herself’ in a novel that comments on colonialism and the colonisation of the mind. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Our Sister Killjoy, who also wrote the novel Changes: a Love Story.
Aidoo is an author from this country, where she was Minister of Education under the regime of Jerry Rawlings.
Aidoo discussed the African diaspora in a play titled for The Dilemma of one of these figures. Recent analysis has compared Nigerian and Western stories about these supernatural figures, which also feature in The Turn of the Screw.
Ama Ata Aidoo
Republic of Ghana
ghosts [accept The Dilemma of a Ghost; accept ghost stories] &lt;AH&gt;
In a 2015 interview, Kamel Daoud stated that ‘By removing [their victims’] names, [white men] render banal murder and crimes’ with reference to this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Albert Camus [al-BEAR ca-MOO], in which all Arab characters, including the person Meursault [‘mer-SOH’] murders on the beach, are unnamed.
Another nameless character in The Stranger works in this profession and feels embarrassed at having to ask Meursault certain questions. The protagonist of Camus’ The Fall, Jean-Baptiste Clamence, also works in this profession.
In this short story by Camus, the title workers at a cooper’s shop are all unnamed. They offer no condolences for the shop-owner’s ill daughter, although one of them, Yvers [ee-VAIR], later expresses his feelings to his wife.
The Stranger [or L'Étranger]
defence lawyers [accept legal profession; accept justice or judge-penitent or magistrate]
‘The Silent Men’ [or ‘Les Muets’] &lt;AH&gt;
The formal poetry of this language has twenty-four types of cynghanedd [cung-HA-neth], or harmony, which structure individual lines based on alliteration, rhyme, and stress. For 10 points each:
Name this language. The awdl is the most prestigious poetic form in this language and is rewarded in the Chairing of the Bard at the National Eisteddfod [eye-STETH-vod], held in Cardiff in 2018.
The Eisteddfod of the Black Chair was so named after this poet was elected as the Bard with the poem Yr Arwr, or The Hero, six weeks after his death, and the Chair was covered in a black sheet.
Hedd Wyn died on the first day of the Battle of Passchendaele, as did a man whom ‘Squire nagged and bullied’ in ‘Memorial Tablet’, a poem by this English war poet, who also wrote ‘Aftermath’.
Welsh
Hedd [heth] Wyn [accept Ellis Humphrey Evans; accept Fleur-de-Lys]
Siegfried Loraine Sassoon &lt;AP&gt;
Daisy Johnson drew on fairy tales to write about a protagonist with this first name in <em>Everything Under</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this first name of a character who is kidnapped by a witch along with Hansel.
In Everything Under, Gretel lives in one of these places. A 1979 Booker-winning novel by Penelope Fitzgerald is set among inhabitants of these things, inspired by Fitzgerald’s years living in one of them.
‘Hansel and Gretel’ is designated as Class 327А of this system, which categorises European folklore. The German folklorist Hans-Jörg Uther revised and expanded this system in 2004.
Gretel
houseboats [prompt on boats or ships with ‘what kind of boat/ship’?]
Aarne-Thompson-Uther Index [or ATU Index] &lt;AH&gt;
This word features twice in the title of a Walt Whitman poem that encourages ‘my tan-faced children’ to ‘take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson’. For 10 points each:
Give this word. In a novel with this word in its title, Frank Shabata drunkenly shoots Emil and Marie under a white mulberry tree, a crime later discovered by Crazy Ivar.
O Pioneers! is a novel by this American author. Along with My Ántonia, it forms part of this author’s Great Plains trilogy.
A poem about this place interjects ‘O, Pioneers!’ after it admits being ‘Hungry yet today despite the dream’. Earlier, that poem describes this place as ‘the pioneer on the plain / Seeking a home where he himself is free’.
pioneers [accept O Pioneers! or ‘Pioneers! O Pioneers!’]
Willa Cather
America [accept ‘Let America Be America Again’; accept the USA] &lt;AH&gt;
The policemen Simmonds and Ross repeatedly punch each other in an attempt to cover up the accidental killing of the abusive Kenny in this author’s play <em>The Removalist</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this prolific Australian dramatist, who also satirized university life in works like The Department and Dead White Males.
The Sydney Morning Herald hailed Nakkiah Lui, a member of this group, as ‘Australia’s next David Williamson’ in 2018. In Williamson’s play Emerald City, Kate’s editor warns her against publishing a work by a member of this group because ‘Blacks don’t sell books’.
Williamson is also known as a screenwriter and was the first choice to adapt this Joan Lindsay novel about a group of schoolgirls who go missing during an outing on Valentine’s Day 1900 into a now-iconic film, though he was unable to take on the project.
David Williamson
Aboriginal Australians [accept Aborigines; prompt on Indigenous Australians or First Nations Australians]
Picnic At Hanging Rock &lt;CJ&gt;
A 1983 book by Michael Slater discusses these characters in a certain author’s work and categorises them as Angel, Fairy, Good Sister or Kitten. For 10 points each:
Name this type of character written by a certain author. A book about these characters by Miriam Margolyes [MAR-go-lees] and Sonia Fraser notes that their author often portrays them as emotionally deadened seventeen-year-olds, perhaps due to the death of Mary Hogarth aged seventeen.
David Holbrook argues that this character’s abusive upbringing by Miss Barbary numbs her emotions. This only female narrator in Dickens’ works narrates part of a novel dominated by the Jarndyce and Jarndyce court case.
Estella is portrayed as similarly emotionless after being brought up by Miss Havisham in this Dickens novel, whose protagonist is Pip.
female characters in the works of Charles Dickens [prompt on Dickensian characters; prompt on women or female characters with ‘in which author?’; anti-prompt if they give a too-specific subset, e.g. Dickensian fallen women]
Esther Summerson [accept either underlined part]
Great Expectations &lt;AH&gt;
Article 301 of this country’s penal code has been used to persecute several of its authors. For 10 points each:
Name this country. A novel set in this country involves a radical named Blue being betrayed to its government and begins with the protagonist in a café witnessing the Director of the Institute of Education being shot.
This author was charged under Article 301 with insulting Turkishness and the Turkish armed forces with their novel Snow. This author also wrote My Name is Red.
This other author was charged under Article 301 for discussing the Armenian genocide in The Bastard of Istanbul. This author used both Istanbul and Oxford as the setting for their novel Three Daughters of Eve.
Republic of Turkey
Orhan Pamuk
Elif Shafak &lt;AH&gt;
One of the protagonists of this novel is fatally wounded in a duel against the music teacher Chevalier Danceny. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. One of the protagonists of this novel abandons Cécile [seh-SEEL] due to a promise from the other protagonist of a night together that is eventually reneged on.
While Vicomte de Valmont is killed in a duel, the Marquise de Merteuil [mehr-TOO-ee] suffers this fate after moving to the Netherlands, which results in her losing her beauty.
Despite the rather shocking content of Dangerous Liaisons, many upper-class women in eighteenth-century France owned a copy, including this wife of Louis XVI, who is depicted in Dumas’ The Knight of the Red House.
Dangerous Liaisons [or Les Liaisons dangereuses]
contracting smallpox [prompt on scarring, illness or disease]
Marie Antoinette &lt;GDC&gt;
Adam Mickiewicz [MITS-kay-vitch] was inspired to write poetry in this form by a trip to Crimea in 1825. For 10 points each:
Name this fourteen-line poetic form, which Mickiewicz included in a collection named for Crimea and Odessa.
Mickiewicz’s national epic Pan Tadeusz [ta-day-oosh] is written in the Polish version of this metrical line. Racine’s plays were composed in this meter, which Alexander Pope compared to ‘a wounded snake’.
One scene in the Pan Tadeusz was inspired by the Compendium Ferculorum, a work in this genre dedicated to Princess Helena Lubomirska. A 15th-century work in this genre written in German was titled for Master Eberhard.
sonnets [accept Crimean Sonnets or Odessan Sonnets]
alexandrine
cookery books [or recipe books] &lt;AH&gt;
Poet Kenneth Rexroth is often cited as the ‘father’ of this city’s cultural Renaissance in the 1950s, with Madeline Gleason as its ‘mother’. For 10 points each:
Name this city, home to the City Lights Bookstore, where Rexroth organised the Six Gallery Reading.
The San Francisco Renaissance is often associated with this American literary generation, whose leading poets included Allen Ginsberg, Gary Snyder and Michael McClure.
This poet, whose several ‘Revolutionary Letters’ are collected in Pieces of a Song, also wrote Memoirs of a Beatnik. They were named San Francisco’s Poet Laureate in 2009.
San Francisco
The Beats [or Beat Generation]
Diane Di Prima &lt;NC&gt;
This poem states ominously that ‘The martial emperor's dream of expansion has no end’ and imagines ‘shed blood becom[ing] a sea’. For 10 points each:
Name this poem. This poem claims that it is better to have female than male children, because ‘Our girls can still be married’ whereas ‘Our sons are merely buried amid the grass’.
This author of Song of the Wagons wrote that ‘The torch of war has filled three months with fire’ in their poem A Spring Scene in Wartime. This Tang-dynasty ‘Poet Sage’ frequently wrote about their thatched hut.
Du Fu wrote that the wagons stirred up so much dust that one of these structures across the Wei river was hidden. The poet Zhang Ji wrote about a night mooring on a river beside one of these structures.
Song of the (War) Wagons [or bīng chē xíng; accept Ballad instead of Song; accept Chariots or (Army) Carts instead of Wagons]
Du Fu [or Zimei; or Tu Fu; or Du Shaoling; or Du Gongbu]
bridges [accept Night Mooring at Maple Bridge or the Xianyang bridge] &lt;AH&gt;
The players in <em>Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead</em> perform a dramatic re-enactment of the most famous incident involving this group, much to the disgust of the title characters. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical group. Stephen Vincent Benet portrayed the aforementioned incident involving these people in one short story that was later adapted into a musical film starring Howard Keel.
The rape of the Sabine Women is parodied by Lady Carlotta in ‘The Schartz-Metterklume Method’, a work by this Edwardian British author of short stories like ‘The Open Window’.
This English caricaturist depicted the Sabine women as part of their series The Comic History of Rome. They were also the first illustrator of Charles Dickens’ A Christmas Carol.
the Sabine Women [accept the rape or abduction of the Sabine Women]
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
Jack Leech &lt;GDC&gt;
A critical essay claims that this novel ‘scored 114 offenses against literary art out of a possible 115. It breaks the record.’ For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which ‘Floating Tom’ Hutter is scalped alive. The previously mentioned essay attacked this novel’s unrealistic scenes, including one in which the protagonist knocks a nail into a piece of wood by shooting it with a bullet.
That critical essay was ‘Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses’, by this author, who presumably avoided any offences against literary art in their novels about Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn.
In his letters, Twain argued that this other author’s prose was unreadable, although narrowly better than Jane Austen’s. This author of the novel The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket also wrote the short story ‘Berenice’.
The Deerslayer, or The First War-Path
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;AH&gt;
This town was created by Sir Fredrick Lawley in the nineteenth century. For 10 points each:
Name this town. In one novel, Rajam realises that starting a cricket team is ‘the most complicated problem on Earth’, while in another the holy man Raju fasts on the banks of the river Sarayu, which runs through this town.
Malgudi is the creation of this Indian author, who wrote about Margayya giving advice to the people of the town in The Financial Expert. This author also wrote The Guide and The Painter of Signs.
Jagan, the protagonist in Narayan’s Vendor of Sweets, is an ardent follower of this Indian statesman, whose fictional visit to Malgudi is depicted in Waiting for Mahatma.
Malgudi
R. K. Narayan
Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi] &lt;GDC&gt;
At the end of a work by this author, two men deface a painting with a blue felt-tip pen. For 10 points each:
Name this author. In another of their plays, Annette vomits on a coffee table during a meeting about how her son knocked out another boy’s teeth during an argument.
Yasmina Reza is from this country. Her play, Conversations After a Burial, won the Moliére award, which is the national theatre award of this country.
Reza claimed that there is nothing more French than this other author, who left France for several years after calling Islam the ‘stupid religion’ in a promotion tour for their book Platform. They also wrote Elementary Particles.
Yasmina Reza
France
Michel Houellebecq [ooh-el-BECK] &lt;GDC&gt;
One section of this work describes a priest’s murder in the lines ‘But a man was killed, I am told, in a place where I saw / Something; a man was killed, I am told, and I saw something.’ For 10 points each:
Name this verse novel structured as a series of letters between the indecisive Claude and his friend Eustace.
Amours de Voyage is a work by this poet, who wrote ‘Honor thy parents; that is, all / From whom promotion may befall’ in ‘The Latest Decalogue’. The elegy Thyrsis was written in their memory.
As well as describing Oxford as ‘that sweet city with her dreaming spires’ in Thyrsis, this poet also wrote about how the world seems ‘so various, so beautiful, so new’ in ‘Dover Beach’.
Amours de Voyage
Arthur Hugh Clough
Matthew Arnold &lt;AP&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about some novels whose titles have something in common:
In this novel, John and Mona emerge from a bunker to find a mass grave, while earlier a nation puts on an air show celebrating the ‘Hundred Martyrs to Democracy’.
This Canadian author wrote about the artist Elaine Risley looking back over her life in Cat’s Eye and in 2019 published the sequel to The Handmaid’s Tale.
This other author’s novel Cat’s Table tells the story of Michael’s voyage from Sri Lanka to England aboard the ocean liner Oronsay. The title character of another of this author’s novels falls in love with Katherine Clifton when she reads Herodotus aloud.
Cat’s Cradle
Margaret Atwood
Michael Ondaatje [on-DAH-chee] &lt;CJ&gt;
Prem Bodasingh refuses to give up her seat on the bus in one scene in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional reworking of Alan Paton’s years as an activist, including real characters such as Helen Joseph. The title of this novel refers to the reaction of foreign visitors observing South African politics.
Julie Summers' car breaks down in this other author’s novel The Pickup. This writer’s other novels include The Conservationist.
Another novel by Gordimer ends with Maureen Smales running towards an unmarked one of these vehicles that ‘may contain saviors or murderers’. This vehicle arrives at the village where the liberal white Smales family has fled from race war in Johannesburg.
Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful
Nadine Gordimer
helicopters &lt;AH&gt;
In the poem ‘Dunt’ from this poet’s collection <em>Falling Awake</em>, they describe ‘a Roman water nymph made of bone’ as a ‘very speechless very broken old woman’ as it tries to draw a long-dried-up river. For 10 points each:
Name this poet. Episodes from a sewage treatment plant and some poachers form part of this poet’s T.S Eliot-Prize-winning Dart.
‘Tithonus’, which concludes Falling Awake, is this kind of poem. Other examples of this kind of poem include ‘Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came’, ‘St Simeon Stylites’, and ‘Andrea del Sarto’.
This poet also wrote a dramatic monologue entitled ‘Tithonus’, and about ‘Nature, red in tooth and claw’ in In Memoriam A.H.H.
Alice Oswald
dramatic monologue [prompt on monologue]
Alfred, Lord Tennyson &lt;AP&gt;
In a novel by this author, the title character escapes from his abusive master Erasmus Wilde and embarks on a scientific journey. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Washington Black, who was previously acclaimed for their 2011 novel Half-Blood Blues.
After escaping with Washington, Christopher Wilde abandons him in this country. Edugyan is from this country, as is another author of a trilogy of novels including The Manticore.
Edugyan has cited this author’s works as a major influence on her novels, and praised the ‘exquisitely torqued prose’ of this author’s novel Beloved.
Esi Edugyan
Canada
Toni Morrison &lt;AH&gt;
This novel, along with the rest of its author’s work, was dismissed as ‘whining, unenjoyable public pornography’ by a writer who resigned from the Swedish Academy in protest over the awarding of the 2004 Nobel Prize to Elfriede Jelinek. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that follows the sexually repressed Erika’s relationship with one of her students at the Vienna Conservatory.
A somewhat less controversial female German-language author to win the Nobel Prize was Herta Müller, who wrote about the struggles of the Banat Swabians living in this country in novels like The Passport and drew on her experiences of being questioned by this country’s secret police in The Land of Green Plums.
In its statement awarding the prize to Müller, the Academy compared her to this other author for their similar use of German as a minority language. This author worked mostly in Prague, where they produced works like The Castle and The Metamorphosis.
The Piano Teacher
Romania
Franz Kafka &lt;CJ&gt;
This author wrote that ‘night fell howl / on Soweto’ in a poem which ends with the repeated word ‘bruggadung’. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who also wrote that ‘the white dream wrestle(s) to life’ in the poem ‘Bread’. This author coined the term ‘nation language’ to describe the use of non-standard English in works by the African diaspora.
While in London, Brathwaite created an artistic movement named for this area of the world. Other authors from this broad area of the world include Derek Walcott and Patrick Chamoiseau [SHA-mwuh-zoh].
Brathwaite claimed that ‘the hurricane does not roar in’ this poetic metre in a History of the Voice, in which he argued that this poetic metre, used in poems like ‘Ode to Autumn’, has been the dominant form of English poetry since the time of Chaucer.
(Edward) Kamau Brathwaite
the Caribbean Sea [accept Caribbean Artists Movement]
pentameter [accept iambic pentameter] &lt;GDC&gt;
John Dennis wrote a defence of this play that notes the similarity between a rakish character and Wilmot, Earl of Rochester. For 10 points each:
Name this play, which begins with an attempted seduction being interrupted by an orange seller. The song ‘How charming Phyllis how fair!’ is sung at a party in this play.
Man of Mode is an example of a type of drama named for this period of English history. Other dramas named for this period include The Country Wife and The Rover.
The themes of Man of Mode are reused in Mr. Limberham, a play by this author that was only performed three times. More successful plays by this author include one in which Serapion hosts a festival to celebrate Mark Antony, All For Love, as well as Marriage à la Mode.
Man of Mode
Restoration
John Dryden &lt;GDC&gt;
This author wrote <em>The Impossibility of Sex</em>, which weaves explanations of psychological concepts with fictional stories from therapy. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose most famous work examined why people, and women in particular, eat when they are not hungry, and the problem of overdieting. This author railed against the ‘myth of obesity’ in Bodies.
Orbach is married to this author, who wrote about a character called Dog Woman in Sexing the Cherry, as well as a semi-autobiographical work about her childhood in Accrington, Lancashire.
Orbach’s most famous work is titled for the claim that ‘fat’ is an issue relating to this political and social movement. Orbach is often seen as being part of the ‘second wave’ of this movement, along with figures like Betty Friedan and bell hooks.
Susie Orbach
Jeanette Winterson
feminism &lt;GDC&gt;
In Dick Davis’ translation of the duel between these two figures, the eventual winner praises his opponent as ‘O hero, lion destroyer, mighty lord’ in order to escape death. For 10 points each:
Name these two figures. One of them, the son of the princess Tahmineh, is killed by the other, his father, who only recognises the clasp he had given Tahmineh after breaking his son’s back.
The tragic tale of Rostam and Sohrab appears in this epic of Persian literature, written by Ferdowsi.
One of the kings who appears in the Shahnameh is Alexander the Great, who after conquering Persia attempts to reach this place with Khezr, but instead encounters a group of talking birds. The search for this place is a recurring storyline in the Alexander romance and legends.
Rostam and Sohrab
the Shahnameh [or The Book of Kings]
the Fountain of Youth [accept any answer that mentions water that will grant either eternal youth or eternal life] &lt;AH/OSC/CJ&gt;
L.D. throws a pickle jar through a window in one story in this collection, while another is a predecessor to the same author’s ‘A Small, Good Thing’. For 10 points each:
Name this collection whose title story features discussions about an injured elderly couple and the suicide of an abusive ex-boyfriend while Mel, Terri, Laura, and Nick drink gin around a table in Albuquerque.
Raymond Carver, the author of What We Talk About When We Talk About Love, received his greatest critical acclaim for the story ‘Cathedral’, which revolves around the narrator’s interaction with a man with this condition. Pozzo is affected by this condition between Act I and Act II of Waiting for Godot.
In his essay ‘On Influence’, Carver expressed his admiration for this other author, who wrote short stories like ‘A Clean, Well-Lighted Place’ and the novella The Old Man and the Sea.
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love
blindness [accept being unable to see]
Ernest Hemingway &lt;CJ&gt;
Mrs Teachum runs a boarding school in a novel by a writer with this surname, in which each child tells a story with a moral lesson over the course of ten days. For 10 points each:
Give this surname shared by the author of the first children’s novel, The Governess, and their brother, the author of Tom Jones.
Sarah Fielding was a member of this group, which was financially supported by Elizabeth Montagu and sought to encourage female participation in art and literature.
This writer satirised the Blue Stockings in the play The Witlings, despite being a member themselves. The title character of one of this writer's novels marries Mortimer Delvile over the objections of his proud and prejudiced father.
(Sarah and Henry) Fielding
Blue Stocking Society
Frances ‘Fanny’ Burney &lt;AP&gt;
This author attacked one of their literary enemies in their only novel, <em>El Buscón</em>, and developed their style of <em>conceptismo</em> in verses like ‘I am a was, and a will be and an is tired’. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who also brutally satirized their main rival Luis de Góngora in works like ‘To a Nose’.
Quevedo and Góngora belonged to this period of Spanish artistic and literary flowering. This era coincided with the height of the Spanish empire, and its other prominent authors include the playwrights Lope de Vega and Calderón de la Barca.
The idea of memento mori appears in several of Quevedo’s poems like his Psalm 18, an escalation of this earlier idea expressed in the work of Renaissance Spanish poets like Garcilaso de la Vega. In visual art, this two-word phrase is sometimes represented by a clock inscribed with the phrase ‘tempus fugit’.
Francisco de Quevedo
Spanish Golden Age [accept Siglo de Oro]
carpe diem &lt;CJ&gt;
This author wrote a novel in which a woman kills her own son with sleeping pills after she realises her husband has a second wife. For 10 points each:
Name this author, whose most famous novel revolves around a woman writing letters to her best friend during her period of Iddah.
Mariama Ba wrote in this language, the lingua franca of her home country of Senegal.
This other author wrote an account of a railway strike in Senegal in God’s Bits of Wood. This writer often turned their own work into films, leading some to call him ‘the father of African cinema’.
Mariama Ba
French
Ousmane Sembène &lt;GDC&gt;
In one of their works, this poet describes a narrator ‘A-rock-rock-rocking / To a mother-goose rhyme!’. For 10 points each:
Name this poet, who wrote ‘The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver’ and began another work with ‘All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood’.
In ‘The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver’, the narrator’s mother has woven clothes ‘piled up beside her / And toppling to [this thing]’. In ‘Renascence’, the narrator describes this thing as ‘not so very tall’ and screams after touching it with their hand.
Millay is more famous for writing in her poem ‘First Fig’ that one of these objects ‘burns at both ends’ and ‘will not last the night’.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
the sky [accept skies]
candles &lt;AH&gt;
Inger kills her newborn child, who has inherited her cleft lip, in a novel by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this author who echoed Nazi ideals of ‘blood and soil’ in their novel Growth of the Soil and wrote another novel in which the protagonist wanders the streets of Kristiania at night.
Hamsun believed that ‘the Germans are fighting for us’ during World War II and wrote an obituary for this Nazi leader, describing him as ‘a preacher of the gospel of justice for all nations’.
Despite Hamsun’s politics, this other author felt that he was ‘the father of modern literature’. This author translated many of Hamsun’s works and wrote short stories like ‘The Spinoza of Market Street’.
Knut Hamsun
Adolf Hitler
Isaac Bashevis Singer [accept either underlined part] &lt;AH&gt;
‘The work of giants is decaying’. For 10 points each, answer the following on the afterlife of Roman Britain.
That quote is from the Old English poem known as ‘The Ruin’, which is usually said to be set in this Roman city. The poem describes how in a complex of structures in this city ‘There stood courts of stone, where a stream gushed in hot rippling floods’.
Other Anglo-Saxon references to Roman ruins as the ‘work of giants’ are often used of places with this Anglo-Saxon place name suffix, which, although it derives from the Latin castrum, could refer to any Roman masonry structure. You can give the modern English derivatives.
Likely the same as the Portus Adurni recorded in the Notitia Dignitatum, this ‘-chester’ was originally built as part of the defensive fortifications of the Saxon Shore. The Saxon history of this site includes a possibly monastic settlement when it was controlled by the nearby Bishop of Winchester.
Bath [accept Aquae Sulis]
‘-chester’ [accept -caster, -cester, or -ceaster]
Portchester &lt;OSC&gt;
This author’s play <em>Elmina’s Kitchen</em> is set in a West Indian restaurant and centres on the appeal of gang culture to Ashley. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary British author who collaborated on Tree, a play based on Idris Elba’s album Idris Elba Presents mi Mandela.
Elmina’s Kitchen depicts life in Hackney’s Murder Mile and thus, like much of Kwei-Armah’s work, takes place in this UK city.
Another play set in the East End of London is Skylight, a work by this playwright. This author’s Plenty depicts drab post-war London life through the eyes of Susan Traherne, a former SOE courier.
Kwame Kwei-Armah
London
David Hare &lt;GDC&gt;
When a piece of music by this composer ends, Mick Kelly feels her ‘heart beating like a rabbit and this terrible hurt’. For 10 points each:
Name this composer. In one novel, a character responds to a ‘spirit’ in the music of this composer with the phrase ‘panic and emptiness’. In another novel, Mr. Beebe meets the protagonist after she plays a piece by this composer at a talent show in Tunbridge Wells.
Helen Schlegel attends a performance of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony in this author’s novel Howard’s End. This author wrote about Lucy and Charlotte’s visit to Florence in A Room With a View.
Beethoven’s exclamation ‘es muss sein’, written on the manuscript of his String Quartet No. 16, is a recurring motif in this novel. A professor’s tomb is marked ‘a return after long wanderings’ in this novel.
Ludwig van Beethoven
E. M. Forster
The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí] &lt;GDC&gt;
As a classical scholar, this poet published a five-volume edition of Manilius’ <em>Astronomica</em> between 1903 and 1930. For 10 points each:
Name this poet, who wrote that the same gale that blows today used to blow on a Roman soldier by the city of Uricon in their poem ‘On Wenlock Edge’.
Housman used classical motifs to describe this figure, who dies with an ‘early-laurelled head’. This figure is ‘chaired [...] through the market-place’ after winning a race in Housman’s poem about his ‘dying young’.
Housman satirised the repetitive style of Ancient Greek drama in this parodic poem. The Chorus tells Alcmaeon to ‘be, on the one hand, good, and do not, on the other hand, be bad’ in this poem.
Alfred Edward Housman
the athlete [accept To an Athlete Dying Young; prompt on runner]
Fragment of a Greek Tragedy &lt;AH&gt;
Not only was this book banned in Australia, but the book describing its British obscenity trial was also banned. For 10 points each:
Name this book about Oliver Mellors and Constance by D.H. Lawrence, which sparked a landmark trial against Penguin Books when the full unexpurgated edition was published.
This novel was effectively banned in the US after an obscenity trial concerning the protagonist’s fantasies about Gerty MacDowell. This novel’s protagonist then visits a maternity hospital where Mina Purefoy is giving birth.
A campaign by the Sunday Express led to a 1928 obscenity trial against Jonathan Cape concerning this book, which follows the life and homosexuality of the upper-class Englishwoman Stephen Gordon.
Lady Chatterley's Lover
Ulysses
The Well of Loneliness &lt;AH&gt;
Petr Bitsilli discusses the sources of this concept in a 1983 stylistic analysis of a certain author’s art. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, which was originally analysed by Ilia Gurliand. Gurliand later recorded this concept in his book of Reminiscences of a certain author.
The principle of Chekhov’s gun is broken in this work, the only play by Chekhov in which a gun is shown but never fired. This play ends with Madame Ranevskaya leaving as offstage axes chop down the title trees.
This other Chekhov play ends with the title character shooting himself off-stage after being challenged by Lvov. The title character’s betrothed, Sasha, realises what he is about to do after he picks up his gun onstage.
Chekhov’s gun
The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnyovyi sad]
Ivanov &lt;AH&gt;
A character in this story accidentally wakes up her lover and scorches him with a candle. For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which the youngest daughter of the king and queen is so beautiful that she is worshipped in place of Venus. A team of ants later help the daughter to sort through a huge hill of mixed grains, one of the impossible tasks she is set.
The tale of Cupid and Psyche is related in the Metamorphoses of this non-Ovid author, in which the protagonist Lucius hears an old woman tell the tale while he is in the form of an ass.
Later in the tale, Venus gives Psyche four tasks, the final of which is to obtain from this deity ‘a little of your beauty, enough for one brief day’. This deity was previously abducted from her mother Ceres by Pluto.
the tale of Cupid and Psyche
Lucius Apuleius Madaurensis
Proserpina [be generous and accept Persephone] &lt;OSC&gt;
One diversion in this play is provided by Elíades, who organises cockfights. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which an alternative source of entertainment is provided by Juan Julián, who ends up falling in love with Conchita and is eventually shot by Cheché.
Anna in the Tropics made this playwright the first Latinx winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. Their most recent work is Exquisite Agony, and they frequently collaborate with Peruvian-American composer Gabriela Lena Frank.
The immigrant cigar rollers in Anna in the Tropics work in this U.S. state, where Zora Neale Hurston lived most of her life. The play is set in Ybor City, a neighbourhood of this state’s city of Tampa.
Anna in the Tropics
Nilo Cruz
Florida &lt;AH&gt;
This character tests William Page’s Latin, though is frequently interrupted by Mistress Quickly’s misunderstandings. For 10 points each:
Name this Welsh schoolmaster in The Merry Wives of Windsor who ‘makes fritters of English’ while helping Slender court Anne Page in competition with the French Dr Caius [KY-us].
Evans leads his pupils disguised as fairies to torment this unwanted suitor of the Windsor wives. The play was supposedly written due to Elizabeth I’s desire to see more of this fat old knight from the Henry IV plays.
The pedant Holofernes and the curate Nathaniel put on a much-heckled pageant of the Nine Worthies at the court of Navarre in this play, which is cut short by the arrival of Marcadé [mar-ka-DAY] with the news that the King of France is dead.
Hugh Evans
John Falstaff
Love’s Labour’s Lost &lt;AP&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following scams and scammers that took the Internet by storm:
This botched music festival touted by rapper Ja Rule and several Instagram influencers had attendees arrive at Great Exuma, Bahamas, only to be given cheese sandwiches and FEMA tents.
In December 2019, this entrepreneur, whom Forbes controversially claimed was on track to become ‘the world’s youngest self-made billionaire’, was called a scammer after posting a video of themselves using a product from their new skin-care line that appeared not to succeed in washing any of their makeup off.
In a more serious scam, this Russian pretend socialite was convicted of grand larceny in 2019 for cheating hotels, restaurants, and their circle of privileged friends out of hundreds of thousands of dollars while pretending to be a German heiress in New York.
Fyre Festival
Kylie Jenner [prompt on Jenner]
Anna Delvey [accept Anna Sorokin] &lt;CJ&gt;
A protagonist wants to furnish every room of their house in this city using black walnut. For 10 points each:
Name this city. In another novel set in this city, a lawyer watches a feminist speech delivered by a character who temporarily moves in with the lawyer’s female cousin.
The protagonist of one of this author’s novels watches their house on Beacon Street in Boston burn down before its completion. This author’s character Basil Marsh is a Bostonian and features in the novel A Hazard of New Fortunes.
This author wrote The Bostonians, but is perhaps most famous for writing The Portrait of a Lady and The Golden Bowl.
Boston
William Dean Howells
Henry James &lt;GDC&gt;
In 2016, Israel’s defense minister Avigdor Lieberman likened a poem by this author to <em>Mein Kampf</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet, who wrote that ‘Nothing is left for us and my grandchildren / Except these rocks’ in their poem ‘Identity Card’.
Darwish’s prose poem Memory for Forgetfulness recreates the horrific siege of this capital city of Lebanon.
Memory for Forgetfulness is set on a day which commemorates events at this location. Another poet’s work Bringing Forth New Life is set at this location, while a poem carved at this location begins ‘Give me back my father. Give me back my mother’.
Mahmoud Darwish
Beirut
Hiroshima &lt;AH&gt;
One of these figures supposedly created a sandbar called the Doom Bar as a dying curse. For 10 points each:
Name these mythical beings, one of which caused a young man to disappear at Zennor. Carnival showman P. T. Barnum supposedly exhibited one of these beings from Fiji, although it had the head of a monkey.
The Mermaids of Padstow and Zennor are both drawn from the folklore of this English county, also known for the Beast of Bodmin Moor. A pixie myth is set near this county’s city of Truro.
The legendary Cornish fisherman Tom Bawcock is traditionally celebrated by eating this food. After saving the village of Mousehole from a famine, Bawcock legendarily cooked seven types of fish into this food.
mermaids [accept Feejee mermaid, Mermaid of Padstow or Mermaid of Zennor]
Cornwall [or Kernow]
stargazy pie [or starrey gazy pie; prompt on fish pie] &lt;AH&gt;
During the Nazi period, this poem was officially declared written by an ‘unknown author’. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which begins ‘I know not what is the reason / Why I am so sad at heart’. This poem later describes the enthralling, spellbinding melody sung by the title golden-haired figure.
‘The Lorelei’ [LAW-re-lai] is a poem by this German lyric poet, who prophetically claimed that ‘where they burn books, they will ultimately burn people as well’.
Heine asked ‘Shall I lie in desert reaches, / Buried by a stranger's hand?’ in this poem. This poem with a one-word title was engraved on three sides of Heine’s tomb in Paris.
‘The Lorelei’ [or ‘Die Lorelei’]
Heinrich Heine
‘Where’? [or ‘Wo’[voh]] &lt;AH&gt;
This historian’s microhistory <em>The Return of Martin Guerre</em> investigated the story of the dispute between the title miller and an imposter. For 10 points each:
Name this historian, who also wrote Fiction in the Archives about the narratives told by people seeking pardons for crimes during the early modern period.
Judith Brown’s microhistory Immodest Acts documented the trial of a member of this profession named Benedetta Carlini for engaging in a possibly coercive lesbian relationship. A 2019 discovery of lapis lazuli in the teeth of one member of this profession testifies to their work as scribes and illustrators.
Immodest Acts, like other microhistories such as Montaillou and The Cheese and the Worms, relies on the records of this religious institution, which had both ‘Papal’ and ‘Spanish’ iterations.
Natalie Zemon Davis
nun
the Inquisition &lt;AP&gt;
A character in this novel dies of a lung infection worsened by a walk across Clapham Common on a rainy day. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, the last of one author’s ‘Catholic novels’. In this novel, the protagonist, based on the author, has a relationship with Sarah Miles, the wife of an impotent civil servant.
Sarah Miles breaks off her affair with Maurice Bendrix after his house is destroyed by a bomb during this event. The Ministry of Fear is also set during this bombing campaign.
In one novel from this non-Greene series of novels, Lady Molly dies during the Blitz, which Nick Jenkins discovers because he is about to inform her of a bombing at the Café de Madrid.
The End of the Affair
the London Blitz
A Dance to the Music of Time &lt;GDC&gt;
Early French translations of this poet’s work were made by Clément Marot and Jacques Peletier and were influential on the writing of the sixteenth-century poet Louise Labé. For 10 points each:
Name this poet of works such as the Triumphs and the epic Africa, whose poems such as ‘I find no peace, and yet I make no war’ gave rise to literary imitators throughout the Renaissance.
This poet’s series of 311 poems were written largely in response to their relationship with Collaltino di Collalto, one of which asks ‘Why should I not possess at least a little / Poetic power to tell it to the world?’
Another female Petrarchist was Lucrezia Tornabuoni, whose marriage lent aristocratic legitimacy to this Florentine banking family. A member of this family, Lucrezia’s son Lorenzo, also found time to write sonnets.
Francis Petrarch [Francisco Petrarca]
Gaspara Stampa
Medici &lt;AP&gt;
Larry Meath’s death at the hands of a police truncheon results in a character in this novel marrying the bookmaker Sam Grundy. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, which fictionalises a real NUWM march during the Great Depression. Mrs Nattle, Mrs Bull and Mrs Jike provide regular comic relief to the gritty realism of this novel.
Love on the Dole is set in the Hanky Park area of Salford and is famous for its use of a dialect that Salford shares with this large North Western English city.
Joe Shuttleworth, the protagonist of Walter Greenwood’s second novel, His Worship the Mayor, has this profession. Walter Morel in Sons and Lovers and Huw Morgan in How Green Was My Valley are also members of this profession.
Love on the Dole
Manchester
coal miner &lt;GDC&gt;
Together with W.H. Auden, this novelist founded a queer literary commune known as February House, where at one point they lived with Benjamin Britten, Klaus Mann, and Gypsy Rose Lee. For 10 points each:
Name this writer whose debut novel interweaves four narratives around the deaf-mute protagonist, and who also wrote Reflections in a Golden Eye.
This close friend of McCullers wrote the introduction for Reflections in a Golden Eye, defending its portrayal of homosexuality. They are better-known for their plays The Glass Menagerie and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
In this McCullers novel, composed while at February House, Frankie renames herself ‘F. Jasmine’ and yearns to join ‘the we of me’ in Alaska. McCullers later adapted this book into a successful Broadway play.
Carson McCullers [or Lulu Carson Smith]
Tennessee Williams
The Member of the Wedding &lt;NC&gt;
In one scene, this character drunkenly repeats ‘I said I’d come and I’ve come, haven’t I?’ several times. For 10 points each:
Name this character, a highly skilled player of the samisen, who consistently refuses to answer the protagonist’s questions about Yoko.
Komako’s samisen playing impresses the urban protagonist of Snow Country, a work by this Japanese author.
Another Japanese custom depicted in Kawabata’s works is the tea ceremony, which decays and is misused by Chikako in this novel. Fumiko smashes Mrs Ota’s 16th-century tea bowl in this novel.
Komako
Yasunari Kawabata
Thousand Cranes [or Senbazuru] &lt;AH&gt;
Unusually, this Greek tragedy begins with a prologue featuring two gods, Athene and Poseidon. For 10 points each:
Name this tragedy by Euripides, which includes several appearances by the herald Talthybius. This play ends with a city collapsing into flames, and it originally appeared in a trilogy with Alexander and Palamedes.
In Trojan Women, this character fails to persuade Menelaus to kill Helen. In a different play by Euripides, this figure blinds Polymestor in revenge for the murder of Polydorus.
This character also appears in Trojan Women. She sings a crazed wedding-hymn and foretells Agamemnon’s death. As usual, nobody believes this character’s prophecies.
Trojan Women [or Troades]
Hecabe [or Hecuba]
Cassandra &lt;AH&gt;
In one scene in this novel, a character remarks to a friend of his return to his childhood home of Berlin that ‘it meant nothing to [him] whatever’, though equally that he should never have left. For 10 points each:
Name this 1989 novel about Hartmann and Fibich, German refugees who come to Britain on the Kindertransport and maintain a lifelong friendship, despite their differing personalities.
This author of Latecomers is best known for winning the 1984 Booker Prize for a novel about Edith Hope being shunned by her friends after having an affair with a married man, Hotel du Lac.
Hotel du Lac is set at this lake in the north Alps, which is shared by Switzerland and France. Villa Diodati, a mansion close to this lake, was rented by Lord Byron and was where Mary Shelley began writing Frankenstein.
Latecomers
Anita Brookner
Lake Geneva &lt;SR&gt;
This poet made their name when their <em>Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral</em> were published in London. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who claimed in one poem that ‘A monarch’s smile can set his subjects free!’ and another poem, stated that ‘’Twas mercy brought me from my pagan land’.
Wheatley addressed ‘To the King’s Most Excellent Majesty’ to this ruler to thank them for repealing the Stamp Act. Wheatley’s schedule did not allow time to meet this king when she visited London shortly before the American War of Independence.
This poet worried that Wheatley had surrendered to pagan influences in London and encouraged her to return to a Christian path in ‘An Address to Miss Phillis Wheatley’. This poet delivered their ‘Address to Negroes of the State of New-York’ while still enslaved, aged 76.
Phyllis Wheatley
George III [prompt on George]
Jupiter Hammon &lt;AH&gt;
Alfio and Turiddu take part in this activity at the end of Verga’s <em>Cavalleria rusticana</em> after Lola dreams of black grapes, foretelling disaster. For 10 points each:
Name this activity. Casanova wrote an autobiographical novel titled for this activity, while in The Brothers Karamazov the Elder Zosima decided to become a monk while taking part in this activity.
Many of Verga’s short stories are set among the poor of this largest Italian island, which is also the setting of Lampedusa’s The Leopard.
Verga, along with Luigi Capuana, was a proponent of this specific Italian literary movement, which drew on, but did not wholly agree with, a similar movement led by Emile Zola.
duelling
Sicily
verismo [do not accept ‘naturalism’; prompt on realism] &lt;AP&gt;
In a novel by this author, an heiress ends up supporting herself by writing erotic fiction for William Lazenby’s magazine <em>The Pearl</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Sue Trinder being tasked with seducing Maud Lilly in the novel Fingersmith. The title of her novel Tipping the Velvet is also a sexual double entendre.
Fingersmith and Tipping the Velvet are among several novels by Sarah Waters with lesbian themes set in this period in British history, which lasted from 1837 to 1901.
A classic lesbian novel by Radclyffe Hall is named after this feeling. In a short story named after this feeling, a boy named Smith takes up running while confined in a borstal, a type of youth detention center.
Sarah Waters
Victorian era
loneliness [accept The Well of Loneliness or “The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
A poem that begins “The flower that smiles today tomorrow dies” is sometimes published under this title. For 10 points each:
Name this title of an 1816 poem which declares that “man’s yesterday may ne’er be like his morrow” and that “nought may endure but” the title concept.
Half of Percy Bysshe Shelley’s poem “Mutability” is quoted in this novel by Percy’s wife Mary about a scientist who creates a monstrous creature.
This other poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley addresses the “breath of Autumn’s being,” which it calls “destroyer and preserver.”
“Mutability”
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
“Ode to the West Wind” &lt;British Literature&gt;
This character notes that “when the doorbell rings, sometimes there is someone, other times there is no one,” settling an argument between Mr. and Mrs. Smith. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is revealed to be the lover of the maid Mary. The play in which this man appears, The Bald Soprano, is named for a character whom this man mentions in passing.
The Bald Soprano is by this Romanian absurdist playwright. His recurring character Bérenger (“bay-ron-ZHAY”) appears in Rhinoceros.
The opening paragraph describing the setting of The Bald Soprano uses this adjective 17 times. The armchair, slippers, pipe, newspaper, and fire used by Mr. Smith are all described by this adjective.
the Fire Chief [or le capitaine des pompiers]
Eugène Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
“English” &lt;European Literature&gt;
A 2018 Vulture article that attempted to assemble a “21st-century literary canon” named this novel the best of the 21st century. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Sibylla and her child prodigy son Ludo, who repeatedly watch an Akira Kurosawa film as Ludo searches for his father’s identity.
Helen DeWitt followed up The Last Samurai with a novel named for these objects. A story from Melville’s Piazza Tales is named for a man who sells these objects, whom the narrator dubs “Mr. Jupiter Tonans.”
Patrick deWitt’s The Sisters Brothers is a novel in this genre, which is exemplified by Zane Grey’s Riders of the Purple Sage and most of Louis L’Amour’s books.
The Last Samurai (by Helen DeWitt)
lightning rods [accept “The Lightning-Rod Man”]
Western [prompt on historical fiction] &lt;American Literature&gt;
The first section of <em>Brideshead Revisited</em> is titled “Et in [this place] Ego,” or “Even in [this place], there am I.” For 10 points each:
Name this term for a pastoral utopia. It titles a Tom Stoppard play that is set both in the early 1800s and the 1990s, as well as a pastoral romance by Sir Philip Sidney.
This two-word Latin phrase means “charming place,” and is used in literary criticism to refer to an idyllic (“eye-DILL-ick”) natural setting.
Northrop Frye’s Green World theory concerns the role of idyllic natural settings in Shakespeare’s work, such as this location to which Duke Senior is exiled in As You Like It.
Arcadia [accept “Et in Arcadia Ego”]
locus amoenus (“ah-MOY-nuss”)
Forest of Arden [prompt on forest] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
A friar attempts to reform this character after he pursues the newly rich Mistress Ursula in a William Kenrick play titled for this character’s “wedding.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who compares Judge Shallow to a “cheese paring” and a carved radish. He and his cronies frequent the Boar’s Head Inn.
Mistress Quickly declares that Falstaff is in “Arthur’s bosom” after his death in this Shakespeare play, whose title king rallies his troops to fight the French in the St. Crispin’s Day Speech.
This “foul mouth’dst rogue in England” is the one who informs Falstaff of the death of Henry IV. This husband of Mistress Quickly is beaten up by the Welsh officer Fluellen (“floo-ELL-in”), who forces him to eat a raw leek.
Sir John Falstaff [accept either underlined portion]
Henry V
Ancient Pistol &lt;British Literature&gt;
The speaker of a poem in this collection describes a “frequent and swift flash of eyes offering [him] love” in the title “City of Orgies.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection. A poem in this collection calls a “mast-hemm’d” city a “stately and admirable” sight and begins “Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face.”
This author included poems like “Song of Myself” and “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry” in his collection Leaves of Grass.
Whitman declares “The great city is that which has the greatest man or woman” in a poem titled “Song of” this type of weapon, which it describes as “shapely, naked, wan (“wahn”).”
Leaves of Grass
Walt Whitman [or Walter Whitman]
broad-axe [prompt on axe] &lt;American Literature&gt;
<em>Foreign-language answer acceptable.</em> A book named after one of these places includes the story “It’s Because We’re So Poor,” which is about a family who loses a cow in a flood. For 10 points each:
Name this type of place that titles a collection containing the stories “They Gave Us the Land” and “Tell Them Not to Kill Me.” A character whose last name is a word for this type of place loves Susana San Juan.
This author of The Burning Plain wrote about Juan Preciado’s time in the ghost-inhabited town of Comala in his novel Pedro Páramo.
This Colombian author allegedly read a gifted copy of Pedro Páramo twice in one night and claimed that he could recite it forwards and backwards. Pedro Páramo influenced his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
plains [or llanos; or páramos] (Páramo is a Spanish word for a barren plain.)
Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Pérez Rulfo Vizcaíno]
Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on partial answers] &lt;World Literature&gt;
The speaker of this poem sees a creature that cried “homesick for his fair native lake: Rain, when will you fall? Thunder, when will you roll?” For 10 points each:
Name this poem dedicated to Victor Hugo about a bird “escaped from his cage.” It opens “Andromache, I think of you!”
“The Swan” appears in the “Parisian Scenes” section of this poet’s Les Fleurs du Mal (“lay flurr doo MALL”).
In a poem from Les Fleurs du Mal, Baudelaire warns this person of Ennui, who “dreams of scaffolds as he smokes his hookah pipe.” Baudelaire calls this person a “hypocrite” and “my fellow, my brother.”
“The Swan” [or “Le Cygne”]
Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]
the reader [accept “Au Lecteur”] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Name some poets who wrote about Charlie Chaplin, for 10 points each.
This poet wrote about how “we make our meek adjustments” in the first line of his poem “Chaplinesque” from the collection White Buildings.
This author of the poem “Chaplin Upon the Cliff, Dining Alone” wrote a short story in which a man dreams that he’s in a theater watching a movie about his parents’ courtship.
The image of “your mother” watching “Chaplin dance in youth” appears in “Kaddish,” a poem by this Beat poet who wrote “Howl.”
Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane]
Delmore Schwartz (That story is “In Dreams Begin Responsibilities.”)
Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg] &lt;American Literature&gt;
This book was adapted from an email sent to the mother of a girl named Chizalum, whom the author hopes “will be full of opinions” from “an informed, humane, and broad-minded place.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2017 epistolary book subtitled “A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions,” which consists of a single long letter detailing how to raise a feminist daughter.
Dear Ijeawele is by this author of the book-length essay We Should All Be Feminists and the novel Americanah.
Adichie’s “The Danger of a Single Story” is one of the most popular of the talks put on by this organization whose slogan is “Ideas worth spreading.”
Dear Ijeawele, or A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (“uh-DEE-chee-ay”)
TED Conferences LLC [or TED talks] &lt;World Literature&gt;
In a story in this collection, the narrator and Lieutenant Fenimore compete for the affection of Ursula as the three of them travel through space on parallel paths, never to meet. For 10 points each:
Name this collection that includes the stories “The Form of Space” and “The Distance of the Moon.” Most of its stories are narrated by a being called Qfwfq (“kuh-FOOF-kuh”).
Cosmicomics is by this Italian author of If on a winter’s night a traveler.
In a story from Cosmicomics, Qfwfq makes one of these things in space, only for Kgwgk (“kuh-GOOG-kuh”) to destroy it. An Italian author who co-founded the journal Versus for the study of these things argued in a 1975 book that “natural” examples of these things deserve as much consideration as “artificial” ones.
Cosmicomics [or Le cosmicomiche]
Italo Calvino
signs [do not accept or prompt on “symbols”] (The other Italian author is Umberto Eco.) &lt;European Literature&gt;
This character calls Pip “boy” before Pip becomes a gentleman, but after Pip receives his fortune, this man addresses him as “my dear young friend… if you will allow me to call you so.” For 10 points each:
Name this “large hard-breathing middle-aged slow man” from Great Expectations. He pompously takes credit for Pip’s social rise although he has nothing to do with it.
Uncle Pumblechook is the creation of this Victorian novelist, whose other ridiculously-named characters include Martin Chuzzlewit and Nicholas Nickleby.
Charles Dickens changed the original ending of Great Expectations on the advice of this novelist, who opened his novel Paul Clifford with the oft-derided phrase “It was a dark and stormy night.”
Uncle Pumblechook
Charles Dickens
Edward Bulwer-Lytton &lt;British Literature&gt;
A detective with this profession discovers Jobter’s attempts to swindle the Crofton family out of an inheritance in R. Austin Freeman’s “The Mysterious Visitor.” For 10 points each:
Give this profession of John Thorndyke. This is also the profession of Sherlock Holmes’s assistant, Watson.
Like Freeman, this author worked during the Golden Age of Detective Fiction. She wrote about the sleuth Albert Campion in novels like The Tiger in the Smoke and Sweet Danger.
Albert Campion was originally a parody of Lord Peter Wimsey, a detective created by this author of The Nine Tailors. Her personal favorite of her own works was her translation of the Divine Comedy.
doctor [or physician]
Margery Allingham [or Margery Louise Allingham]
Dorothy Sayers [or Dorothy Leigh Sayers] &lt;British Literature&gt;
The most recent winner of this prize opens with Somebody McSomebody threatening to shoot the protagonist before calling her a cat. For 10 points each:
Name this literary prize whose first Northern Irish laureate, Anna Burns, won it in 2018 for her novel Milkman. In 2014, this prize’s eligibility was widened to include all English-language novels.
“Milkman” is also the nickname of Macon Dead, the protagonist of this Toni Morrison novel.
Richard Hannay disguises himself as a milkman to escape his potential assassins in The Thirty-Nine Steps, a novel by this Scot who also served as Governor General of Canada.
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
Song of Solomon
John Buchan (“BUKH-in”), 1st Baron Tweedsmuir [prompt on 1st Baron Tweedsmuir] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
Rather than trying to portray his physical likeness, Auguste Rodin created a sculpture of this author based on what he believed to be his writing persona. For 10 points each:
Name this French author who included the novel Le Père Goriot (“luh pair gor-YO”) in his collection The Human Comedy.
In a novel from The Human Comedy, Raphaël de Valentin (“val-on-TAN”) acquires a magical wish-granting piece of the skin of one of these animals.
The original title of The Wild Ass’s Skin puns on this French word, which can refer either to a particular type of hide or to an emotion.
Honoré de Balzac
wild ass [accept The Wild Ass’s Skin]
chagrin &lt;European Literature&gt;
A character in this novel is told by his wife that “those who have always won will win again,” which he turns into a campaign slogan. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which a clairvoyant character predicts the death of Rosa the Beautiful.
The House of the Spirits is by this Chilean novelist.
The novel ends with the revelation that this character is pregnant, as she sits with the dead body of Esteban Trueba. She is the daughter of Blanca and Pedro Tercero.
The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espíritus]
Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]
Alba Trueba de Satigny &lt;World Literature&gt;
In this novel, Carlos realizes that he’s been unwittingly having sex with his sister after Ega tells him of a gift he received from his mother’s friend. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by José Maria de Eça de Queiroz (“zhoo-ZAY mah-REE-ah dee EH-sah dee kay-ROHSH”) about the decline of the title family.
Eça de Queiroz is an author from this country. The author of Blindness, José Saramago (“zhoo-ZAY sah-rah-MAH-goo”), is also from this country.
In 1995, Saramago received this prize, the most important prize given to authors who write in Portuguese. It’s named for the author of an epic poem about Vasco da Gama.
The Maias: Episodes of Romantic Life [or Os Maias: Episódios da Vida Romântica]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
Camões (“kah-MOISH”) Prize [or Prémio Camões; accept Camoens Prize] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Reading this phrase prompts the observation that the only feeling Cleopatra had towards Octavia was jealousy. For 10 points each:
Name this three-word sentence that exposes the fact that the relationships between fictional women are often very simple, and that fictional women are “almost without exception… shown in their relation to men.”
The phrase “Chloe liked Olivia” is discussed in this essay, which imagines what would have happened to the hypothetical Judith Shakespeare.
A Room of One’s Own was written by this author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs Dalloway.
“Chloe liked Olivia”
A Room of One’s Own
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen] &lt;British Literature&gt;
In this poem’s section “Yeux Glauques (“yuh GLOAK”),” the speaker criticizes John Ruskin and Robert Buchanan for attacking Dante Rossetti and Algernon Swinburne. For 10 points each:
Name this long poem by Ezra Pound whose title character tries to “maintain ‘the sublime’ in the old sense” and “resuscitate the dead art of poetry.”
Mauberley is often compared to this character, who asks “Do I dare to eat a peach?” in a “love song” by T. S. Eliot.
Mauberley’s middle name may be an homage to Selwyn Image, a member of this group of British poets co-founded by W. B. Yeats. They met at a pub called Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese.
Hugh Selwyn Mauberley
J. Alfred Prufrock [accept either underlined portion; accept “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”]
Rhymers’ Club &lt;American Literature&gt;
Name these cities that are the subjects of books called <em>Capital</em>, for 10 points each.
Rana Dasgupta’s Capital is about the 21st-century “eruption” of this capital of India.
Kenneth Goldsmith’s Capital collects quotations about this city, which he calls the “capital of the 20th century,” though it isn’t a national capital. Teju Cole’s Open City and Jay McInerney’s Bright Lights, Big City are set here.
John Lanchester’s novel Capital is set in this city, which is the subject of a “biography” by Peter Ackroyd.
New Delhi
New York City [or NYC]
London &lt;Other Literature&gt;
There is something that John Dryden should be blamed for. For 10 points each:
Dryden is widely credited with originating the entirely bullshit rule that English sentences should not end with this part of speech, as in the phrase “the bodies that those souls were frighted from,” which he criticized.
The offending phrase “the bodies that those souls were frighted from” appears in this Ben Jonson tragedy, his only foray into the genre besides Sejanus His Fall.
Dryden’s own play All For Love features this real-life historical figure as its male protagonist. In another play, he delivers a speech that begins “Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.”
prepositions
Catiline His Conspiracy
Mark Antony [or Marcus Antonius; or Mark Anthony] &lt;British Literature&gt;
Faith Barrett’s book <em>To Fight Aloud Is Very Brave</em> calls this conflict a “poetry-fueled war.” For 10 points each:
Name this war. A poem written during this war describes how “in the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea.”
To Fight Aloud Is Very Brave takes its title from a poem by this “Belle of Amherst.”
Part of this poet’s 2006 book Native Guard is about an all-black Civil War regiment called the Louisiana Native Guards. Many of her poems deal with her mother’s death at the hands of the latter’s second husband.
American Civil War (The poem is “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”)
Emily Dickinson [or Emily Elizabeth Dickinson]
Natasha Trethewey &lt;American Literature&gt;
This poet is discovered by the Bedouin prince Nawfal, who tries and fails to convince the family of this poet’s beloved to let the couple wed. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who is given an epithet meaning “crazy.”
Layla and Majnun is one of this many “treasures” written by the 12th-century poet Nizami. There are traditionally said to be this many great Tamil epics.
Nizami wrote the Five Treasures in this language, which Omar Khayyam used to write the Rubaiyat.
Majnun [or Qays ibn al-Mulawwah]
five
Farsi [or Persian] &lt;World Literature&gt;
Answer the following about Catalan literature, for 10 points each.
The 2007 edition of this book fair, the world’s largest, was focused on Catalan literature, and garnered criticism for not highlighting Catalonian literature written in Spanish.
This term is used to describe the period from the 15th to the 18th century in Catalan literature. A late 19th-century literary movement of this name emphasized material excess and aestheticism.
This author considered Tirant lo Blanch (“tee-RAHN lo BLAHNK”), a chivalric romance written in the Valencian dialect of Catalan, to be much better than most examples of its genre. He satirized chivalric romances in general in his novel Don Quixote.
Frankfurt Book Fair [or Frankfurter Buchmesse]
decadence [or decadent movement; or La Decadència]
Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra] &lt;European Literature&gt;
After being afflicted with leprosy, this novel’s protagonist starts to advocate cannibalism. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian Kracht novel which fictionalizes the story of August Engelhardt, who founded a nudist colony whose members subsisted entirely on coconuts.
Kracht was called the “bouncer of right-wing thought” in a controversial review of Imperium published in this weekly German newsmagazine whose name means “The Mirror.”
Kracht’s pop-lit debut novel, Faserland, has often been compared to the novels of this American author, including Less Than Zero and American Psycho.
Imperium
Der Spiegel
Bret Easton Ellis &lt;European Literature&gt;
A short story by Will Self replaces the title object of this story with a rock of crack. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Percy Washington boasts that his father is the richest man in the world because he owns the enormous title object.
“The Diamond as Big as the Ritz” is one of the five stories by this author known collectively as the “Gatsby cluster” because of their relationship to The Great Gatsby.
In this story from the Gatsby cluster, Father Schwartz collapses after hearing confession from Rudolph Miller. This story developed out of a discarded early draft of The Great Gatsby.
“The Diamond as Big as the Ritz”
F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
“Absolution” &lt;American Literature&gt;
Fionnula Flanagan wrote a play entitled <em>[this author’s] Women</em>, about the women in his life and some of his female characters. For 10 points each:
Name this author. In the movie version of the aforementioned play, Flanagan portrays his patron, Harriet Shaw Weaver.
In the movie, Flanagan also plays Nora, Joyce’s wife, who had this last name.
Among the fictional characters brought to life in James Joyce’s Women is Cissy Caffrey, one of the girls on the Sandymount Strand in the “Nausicaa” episode of this novel about a day in the life of Leopold Bloom.
James Joyce [or James Augustine Aloysius Joyce]
Barnacle
Ulysses &lt;British Literature&gt;
A poem by this author follows a description of uncollected bones with a description of new ghosts angered by injustice and old ghosts weeping. For 10 points each:
Name this 8th-century poet who described a procession of conscript archers in his “Song of the Wagons.”
Du Fu lived in this country, which is the setting of his poem “Autumn Day in Kui Prefecture.”
Thirty-nine Du Fu poems are included in an anthology whose title promises this many Tang poems, compiled by Sun Zhu during the Qing (“ching”) Dynasty. The Classic of Poetry is also often said to have this many poems, though it actually has slightly more.
Du Fu [or Tu Fu]
China [or Zhongguo]
300 &lt;World Literature&gt;
This author’s <em>Broken Earth</em> series is set on a supercontinent called the Stillness that is home to oppressed earth-controlling “orogenes,” one of whom cracks the continent to trigger a “Fifth Season.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who won the 2018 Hugo Award for Best Novel, making her the first person to win that award three years in a row.
Jemisin’s first trilogy of novels, which began with The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms, is titled for this word. It also names a much worse “Cycle” by Christopher Paolini about Eragon and his dragon Saphira.
The first person to win the Hugo for Best Novel two years in a row was this homophobic Mormon, who won it for Ender’s Game and Speaker for the Dead.
N. K. Jemisin [or Nora K. Jemisin]
inheritance [accept the Inheritance Trilogy or Inheritance Cycle]
Orson Scott Card &lt;Trash&gt;
In this novella, Doctor Ivan Bormenthal notes that the pituitary gland gives “not rejuvenation but total humanization” and “predetermines the human image.” For 10 points each:
Name this novella in which Professor Preobrazhensky transplants two organs into Sharik, turning him into a human.
Heart of a Dog is a satire on Communist theories of human perfectibility written by this author, who also wrote The Master and Margarita.
Bulgakov’s science fiction-themed satires also include The Fatal Eggs, in which Vladimir Persikov accidentally creates a plague of snakes, ostriches, and crocodiles while trying to breed these animals.
Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept A Dog’s Heart; accept any English translation that is identical to Heart of a Dog or A Dog’s Heart if you ignore the articles “a” and “the”]
Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]
chickens &lt;European Literature&gt;
This novel ends with Jack bursting into a party after discovering the truth about his the identity of his wife, who then falls to her death out of a window. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Irene recalls an encounter at a Drayton Hotel restaurant with Clare, a woman who is raised by her white aunts.
The title character of this author’s Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man decides to pass as white after witnessing a lynching.
Roxy, who is 1/32 black, is switched at birth with a white boy named Tom and is raised as white in Pudd’nhead Wilson, a novel by this creator of Huckleberry Finn.
Passing (by Nella Larsen)
James Weldon Johnson
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens] &lt;American Literature&gt;
Answer the following about Aldous Huxley’s relationship with drugs, for 10 points each.
In Brave New World, this population-placating drug is described as having “all the advantages of Christianity and alcohol and none of their defects.”
Huxley’s description of a mescaline trip makes up the bulk of his book The Doors of Perception, which takes its title from this author’s The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
Huxley wrote about drugs as an avenue of escape in the epilogue to this non-fiction novel about Urbain Grandier, who was accused of being responsible for the demonic possession of a group of Ursuline nuns.
soma
William Blake
The Devils of Loudun &lt;British Literature&gt;
A book by this author includes the autobiographical essay “Tristes Tropiques,” which discusses the experience of “twinning” with a loved one referred to only as SL. For 10 points each:
Name this New Yorker theater critic who included people like Malcolm X’s mother in the title category of his book White Girls. He won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Criticism.
White Girls also includes a portrait of André Leon Talley, the former editor-at-large of this fashion magazine currently helmed by Anna Wintour (“winter”).
An essay from White Girls about Eminem shares its title with this novel in which Jack Gladney is spooked by the Airborne Toxic Event.
Hilton Als
Vogue
White Noise &lt;Other Literature&gt;
A late 19th-century genre named for its opposition to this ideology is exemplified by Nikolai Leskov’s <em>No Way Out</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this ideology held by a character who visits the estate of his college friend Arkady Kirsanov. That character with this ideology duels Pavel, who has a disdain for this ideology.
The aforementioned nihilist, Bazarov, is one of the main characters of this novel by Ivan Turgenev (“tur-GAIN-yeff”).
At the end of Fathers and Sons, Bazarov dies of blood poisoning after cutting himself while distractedly performing this type of procedure.
nihilism [or nihilist]
Fathers and Sons [or Ottsy i deti]
autopsy &lt;European Literature&gt;
This author wrote a philosophical dialogue in which an Icelander meets a giant personification of Nature in the heart of Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century Romantic poet. The speaker of one of his poems remembers a time “when beauty so bewildering, shone” in the title character’s “laughing, glancing eyes.”
A Leopardi poem contrasts the “wretched” and “wearisome” life of a shepherd with the constancy of this object. A poem by Sir Philip Sidney describes the “sad steps” with which this object “climb’st the skies.”
Leopardi wrote in this language, in which the first sonnets were written.
Giacomo Leopardi [or Giacomo Taldegardo Francesco di Sales Saverio Pietro Leopardi]
the Moon [accept “To the Moon” or “Alla Luna”]
Italian [or Italiano] &lt;European Literature&gt;
In this novel, Gibbs marvels that Bast can compose music when there is “so God damned much entropy going on” in his 96th Street apartment. For 10 points each:
Name this novel written almost entirely in dialogue. This novel’s sixth-grade title character buys millions of surplus picnic forks from the Air Force and sells them to the Army.
William Gaddis’s concern with entropy in J R is reminiscent of this other postmodernist’s story “Entropy.” The statistician Roger Mexico appears in one of this author’s novels.
The computer Multivac is asked “How can the net amount of entropy of the universe be massively decreased?” in the science fiction story “The Last Question,” written by this author of the Foundation series.
J R
Thomas Pynchon [or Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.]
Isaac Asimov &lt;American Literature&gt;
In Jhumpa Lahiri’s “The Third and Final Continent,” one of these people named Mrs. Croft repeatedly makes the narrator say “splendid” about the fact that the Americans have put a flag on the moon. For 10 points each:
Name this type of person. The speaker of Wole Soyinka’s (“WALL-ay SHOW-ying-ka’s”) poem “Telephone Conversation” tells one of these people that he “hates a wasted journey,” before she asks him “Are you dark? or very light?” in all caps.
In Soyinka’s poem, that all-caps question is prompted by the speaker saying he is from this continent, where Soyinka was born.
This woman, whose first name is never given, is the landlady of 221B Baker Street, where Sherlock Holmes lives.
landlady [accept landlord or letter or renter]
Africa
Mrs. Hudson &lt;Other Literature&gt;
The Laurel and Hardy film <em>Our Relations</em> is based on a story in which this author’s recurring characters Ginger Dick and Peter Russet pawn a set of clothes only to discover that all their money was hidden inside them. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Money Box.” He wrote a story in which the Whites use the monkey’s paw against the advice of its previous owner Sergeant-Major Morris, leading to the death of their son Herbert.
Several of Jacobs’s lighter stories were published in The Idler, which was co-edited by Robert Barr and this Irish author of the humorous travelogue Three Men in a Boat.
Ginger Dick and Peter Russet share this profession with a Coleridge character who is made to wear an albatross around his neck after shooting it with a crossbow.
W. W. Jacobs [or William Wymark Jacobs]
Jerome K. Jerome [or Jerome Klapka Jerome]
sailor [or mariner] &lt;British Literature&gt;
This poem begins with the lines “Just as my fingers on these keys make music, so the self-same sounds on my spirit make a music too.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that makes various allusions to the biblical story of Susanna and the Elders. It notes that “the body dies; the body’s beauty lives.”
“Peter Quince at the Clavier” was first published in this poet’s collection Harmonium, which also contains “Sunday Morning” and “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.”
Another poem in Harmonium is named for one of these people “as the letter C,” and recounts a voyage undertaken by Crispin.
“Peter Quince at the Clavier”
Wallace Stevens
comedians [accept “The Comedian as the Letter C”] &lt;American Literature&gt;
After the performance of this play in Gikuyu at an open-air theater in 1977, its authors were imprisoned. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Kiguunda’s daughter Gathoni sings the title refrain.
One of the authors of I Will Marry When I Want, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o (“en-GO-gay wah thee-ON-go”), argued for the use of Gikuyu instead of English in an essay named for performing this process on the mind.
Ngũgĩ renounced this English first name, which he was given at birth. This is the first name of Ian Fleming’s most enduring character.
I Will Marry When I Want [or Ngaahika Ndeenda]
decolonizing [or decolonization; accept “Decolonising the Mind”]
James &lt;World Literature&gt;
The epigraph to the screenplay for <em>American Gigolo</em> is a quote about this character, and <em>American Gigolo</em>’s protagonist is named after him. For 10 points each:
Name this character who courts Madame de Fervaques (“fair-VAHK”) in an attempt to make Mathilde (“mah-TEELD”) de la Mole jealous, and is later executed after attempting to murder Madame de Renal.
Julien Sorel is the protagonist of this author’s novel The Red and the Black.
At the end of the novel, Mathilde kisses Julien’s decapitated head, reenacting a story about this queen. This queen’s nickname comes from a novel by Alexandre Dumas, père (“doo-MAH pair”).
Julien Sorel [accept either underlined portion]
Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
Queen Margot [or La Reine Margot; or Margaret of Valois; or Marguerite de Valois] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Baby Kochamma converts to Catholicism to flatter Father Mulligan in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this 1997 novel about the fraternal twins Estha and Rahel, who live in Kerala (“CARE-uh-luh”). In a scene from this novel, Estha is molested by the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man.
The author of The God of Small Things, Arundhati Roy, contributed to the essay collection Kashmir: The Case for Freedom, which was published by this radical publishing house whose logo is a red V.
The Verso Books volume In Praise of Disobedience collects some of the 1891 writings of this author, including “The Soul of Man Under Socialism” and excerpts from The Picture of Dorian Gray.
The God of Small Things
Verso Books
Oscar Wilde [or Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde] &lt;World Literature&gt;
One of the first actors to play this role recalled taking a year to understand why the playwright said this character should wear checked trousers, despite being adored by women. For 10 points each:
Name this character who receives a medallion inscribed with the words “If you ever need my life, come and take it” from an obsessive love interest in Act III of the play in which he appears.
Trigorin is a character from this Russian dramatist’s The Seagull.
After a rocky premiere, The Seagull became popular after its staging at the Moscow Art Theatre by this man, who created a namesake acting method detailed in An Actor Prepares.
Boris Trigorin [accept either underlined portion]
Anton Chekhov [or Anton Pavlovich Chekhov]
Konstantin Stanislavski [or Konstantin Sergeievich Alexeiev] &lt;European Literature&gt;
The speaker of a poem by this author claims that “a sonnet is a moment’s monument” to introduce his sonnet sequence <em>The House of Life</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this English poet and painter who wrote about a woman who “leaned out from the gold bar of Heaven” in a poem published in The Germ.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s sister Christina wrote a narrative poem in which the sisters Laura and Lizzie encounter a market in which these sinister beings beckon them to “come buy, come buy” their fruits.
At the end of “The Blessed Damozel,” the speaker states parenthetically that he heard some of these things. In “Goblin Market,” Laura drops one of these objects “more rare than pearl” when she cuts off a lock of her hair.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti]
goblins [accept “Goblin Market”]
tears &lt;British Literature&gt;
The schoolteacher Wing Biddlebaum flees to this town after being accused of child molestation. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional Ohio town whose inhabitants are described as “grotesques” at the beginning of a Sherwood Anderson book.
This protagonist of Winesburg, Ohio is a journalist for the Winesburg Eagle and befriends Wing Biddlebaum. He is attracted to his former teacher Kate Swift, who “recognizes the spark of genius” in him.
In this story from Winesburg, Ohio, the preacher Curtis Hartman becomes infatuated with Kate Swift after seeing her naked through a hole in the church’s bell tower.
Winesburg, Ohio
George Willard [accept either underlined portion]
“The Strength of God” &lt;American Literature&gt;
Like the essay that follows it, “Many Thousands Gone,” this essay criticizes the depiction of the character Bigger Thomas. For 10 points each:
Name this James Baldwin essay that calls Uncle Tom’s Cabin a “very bad novel” because of its excessive sentimentality.
“Everybody’s Protest Novel” compares Uncle Tom’s Cabin to this Richard Wright novel in which Bigger Thomas murders Mary Dalton and Bessie Mears.
Frantz Fanon (“fah-NAWN”) wrote that Bigger Thomas acted in response to “the world’s anticipation” in this book, whose section “The Negro and Psychopathology” analyzes the psychological effects of colonization on black people.
“Everybody’s Protest Novel”
Native Son
Black Skin, White Masks [or Peau noire, masques blancs] &lt;American Literature&gt;
The narrator of Hella Haasse’s novel <em>The Black Lake</em> grows up in this modern-day country. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country which is the setting of Multatuli’s novel Max Havelaar. It’s the home country of Minke, the protagonist of This Earth of Mankind by Pramoedya Ananta Toer (“prah-MOOD-yah ah-nan-tah TOOR”).
The aforementioned novels all deal with the colonization of Indonesia by this European country.
Vicki Baum used the 1906 Dutch intervention in Bali as the setting for a novel named after these two concepts. A book named after these two concepts partly grew out of the essay “Come Back to the Raft Ag’in, Huck Honey!”
Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia; or Republik Indonesia]
Netherlands [or Nederland; accept Holland or the Dutch]
love AND death [accept Love and Death in Bali or Love and Death in the American Novel] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
This author created Fred Peloux, who goes to dinner with his friend Desmond and stays for months awaiting the return of his wife Lea. For 10 points each:
Identify this one-named French author of Cheri, who wrote about a girl born into a family of courtesans in Gigi.
Colette wrote four novels about this recurring character, including one about her “at school,” in which she clashes with her headmistress Miss Sergent before having an affair with her assistant Miss Lanthenay.
In another novella by Colette, Camille is jealous of her husband Alain’s love for one of these animals and throws it off a balcony. Lewis Carroll created one of these animals who disappears gradually until only his grin is visible.
Colette [or Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette]
Claudine
cat [or La Chatte; accept Cheshire Cat] &lt;European Literature&gt;
The minor poet Henry Petowe (“”) wrote a completion of this unfinished poem. For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose divisions were called “sestiads” by George Chapman, who also wrote a completion of it. As You Like It quotes this poem’s line “Whoever loved, that loved not at first sight?”
Hero and Leander was the longest poem written by this British author before his death in a Deptford pub brawl in 1593. His dramatic works include The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
This poem by Marlowe occasioned many poetic replies, including John Donne’s (“dun’s”) “The Bait” and a parodic reply by Walter Raleigh.
Hero and Leander
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
“The Passionate Shepherd to His Love” &lt;British Literature&gt;
The servant Lucrécia (“loo-kreh-see-ah”) is threatened with the title object of this author’s story “The Case of the Stick” when a joke told by the protagonist distracts her from work. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the short story “Midnight Mass.” In a novella by this author, Bacamarte opens an asylum called the Green House.
In this other Brazilian author’s “The Fifth Story,” the narrator gives different accounts of killings of cockroaches. The title character of this woman’s novel The Passion According to G.H. kills and eats a cockroach.
In a Lispector story named for The Imitation of Christ, a woman agonizes over whether to give away some of these flowers. A Robert Burns song says that “my love is like” one of these flowers “that’s newly sprung in June.”
Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis (“muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES”)
Clarice Lispector
roses &lt;World Literature&gt;
Louis Wolheim received critical acclaim for originating the role of this character, whose real name is Bob Smith. For 10 points each:
Name this character whom several men tease with the chant “Drink, don’t think!” He works as the stoker of an ocean liner.
Yank is the protagonist of this play, whose other characters include Mildred Douglas. Yank is killed by a gorilla at the end of this play.
The Hairy Ape is by this author, who wrote about the Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Yank [prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, The Hairy Ape]
The Hairy Ape
Eugene O’Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O’Neill] &lt;American Literature&gt;
The British travel writer George Borrow often wrote about these people, including in his novel <em>Lavengro</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these people. In an episode from The Mill on the Floss, Maggie runs away after pushing Lucy Deane in the mud, and is taken home by one of these people.
The narrator of this Henry Fielding novel digressively praises the institution of monarchy at the end of a chapter in which the title foundling and his traveling companion Partridge encounter a Roma wedding.
The Romani are referred to as “Bohemians” in this author’s novel Quentin Durward, and they also make an appearance in his Guy Mannering.
Romani people [accept gypsies]
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
Sir Walter Scott &lt;British Literature&gt;
An enormous work by this man incorporates stories from the <em>Eddas</em> as well as genealogies of the Anglo-Saxons. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Teutonic Mythology, the first comprehensive analysis of the myths of the Germanic peoples.
Jacob Grimm is better known for compiling a collection of these works with his brother Wilhelm. That compilation includes such stories as “The Robber Bridegroom” and “Cinderella.”
Jacob Grimm coined the popular term for this event, which is prominent in tales across Europe. Germans often identify its leader as either Wotan or Dietrich von Bern.
Jacob Grimm [or Jacob Ludwig Karl Grimm; prompt on Grimm]
fairy tales [prompt on any answer indicating tales for children]
the wild hunt [or wilde Jagd; prompt on hunt or Jagd] &lt;Mythology&gt;
In an early novel by this author, the protagonist repeatedly goes to a café to imagine the backstory of a murder she saw during her child’s piano lesson. For 10 points each:
Name this author of 1958’s Moderato Cantabile (“kahn-TAH-bee-lay”).
The Child, Husband, and Boss from Duras’s Moderato Cantabile are all unnamed, much like the Arab who Meursault (“mur-SOH”) kills in this author’s The Stranger.
This other author went one further than Duras and Camus by narrating a 1953 novel from the perspective of an “unnamable” protagonist. His other French-language novels include Malone Dies.
Marguerite Duras (“dew-ROSS”) [or Marguerite Donnadieu]
Albert Camus (“all-BAIR ka-MOO”)
Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] &lt;European Literature&gt;
While on his deathbed, Goethe supposedly spoke this two-word phrase, possibly referencing the philosophy outlined in his <em>Theory of Colors</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this two-word phrase that also repetitively titles a poem dedicated to “Heinrich Blucher and Hannah Arendt” that describes horrific executions in the Tower of London and “outside a German wood.”
“More Light! More Light!” is by Anthony Hecht, who co-created a poetic form named for a “double” one of these poetic feet. This foot consists of a long syllable followed by two short syllables, as in the word “poetry.”
With Helen H. Bacon, Anthony Hecht translated this Aeschylus play that consists largely of discussions between Eteocles and his subjects.
more light [or “More Light! More Light!”]
dactyls [accept double dactyl]
Seven Against Thebes [or Hepta epi Thebas] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
This man wrote the novels <em>Arc de Triomphe</em> and <em>Shadows in Paradise</em> while in exile in the US. For 10 points each:
Name this German author whose anti-war novel All Quiet on the Western Front was banned by the Nazis in 1933.
This other German novel was also written in exile. In it, the composer Adrian Leverkühn intentionally contracts syphilis and subsequently enjoys 24 years of musical genius before descending into madness.
While in exile in Brazil, Stefan Zweig wrote a novella in which Dr. B splits into two personas while obsessively studying this activity in solitary confinement.
Erich Maria Remarque [or Erich Paul Remark]
Doktor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on “Faust”]
chess [accept Chess Story; prompt on the royal game] &lt;European Literature&gt;
The speaker of this poem sings Baptist hymns and “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God” to a seal that she sees every morning. For 10 points each:
Name this Elizabeth Bishop poem that opens with an old man sitting and netting on a cold evening.
Bishop’s poem “The Fish” repeats this word three times to describe oil spreading around the engine of a boat. The speaker of William Wordsworth’s “My Heart Leaps Up” sees one of these things.
In a Bishop poem, this character quotes Wordsworth’s “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud” but forgets exactly how it goes. This Daniel Defoe character is stranded on a desert island.
“At the Fishhouses”
rainbows
Robinson Crusoe [accept either underlined portion; accept “Crusoe in England”] &lt;American Literature&gt;
In this novel, the author Mark Asprey prints translations of his own books into multiple languages to make them look more popular than they actually are. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that opens with Samson Young narrating the story of a murder that hasn’t happened yet. The victim of that murder is named Nicola Six.
The author of London Fields, Martin Amis, used this gimmick in his novel about the Auschwitz doctor Odilo Unverdorben. The play Betrayal traces Emma and Jerry’s affair using this gimmick.
Betrayal was written by this British playwright of “comedies of menace” like The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party.
London Fields
reverse chronology [or telling the story backwards in time]
Harold Pinter &lt;British Literature&gt;
Henry Swanzy organized a BBC radio program titled for the “Voices” of this region that helped popularize authors like Edgar Mittelholzer and Edward Kamau Brathwaite. For 10 points each:
Name this region where authors like Michelle Cliff and Claude McKay were born. Many consider Thomas MacDermot’s Becka’s Buckra Baby to be the beginning of modern writing in this region.
Another author popularized by the Caribbean Voices program was this Trinidadian novelist of The Lonely Londoners, which pioneered the use of creolized English in narration.
The Caribbean author Jean Rhys (“jeen reece”) wrote the postcolonial novel Wide Sargasso Sea, which retells this Charlotte Brontë novel.
the Caribbean [or the West Indies; anti-prompt on Jamaica or Barbados or Guyana]
Sam Selvon [or Samuel Selvon]
Jane Eyre &lt;World Literature&gt;
Answer the following about the French literary movement Oulipo (“oo-lee-poh”), for 10 points each.
The Oulipo novel A Void was written without using this vowel, which is the most frequently used letter in both French and English.
A Void is by this French author who also wrote Life: A User’s Manual.
Jean Lescure (“less-KOOR”) invented an Oulipo technique in which every noun in a text is replaced with the nth noun following it in a dictionary, where n is this number.
e
Georges Perec
seven &lt;European Literature&gt;
This kind of animal appears in the title of a story that ambiguously ends with a woman saying to either her husband or another man, “You could have just driven away… forsook me. Forsooken me. Forsaken.” For 10 points each:
Name this type of animal that appears in the title of that Alice Munro story about Grant and his wife Fiona, who suffers from Alzheimer’s. In another story, Isaac hunts one of these animals called Old Ben.
Isaac hunts Old Ben in this author’s story “The Bear,” which he set in Yoknapatawpha (“yock-nuh-puh-TAW-fuh”) County, like most of his novels, including The Sound and the Fury.
The title character of a Thomas Bangs Thorpe story styles himself as “the big bear” of this US state. This home state of Charles Portis is where Maya Angelou grew up, as recounted in I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
bear [accept “The Bear” or “The Bear Came Over the Mountain”]
William Faulkner
Arkansas &lt;American Literature&gt;
Teachings of this movement were collected in its namesake “Codification” by a man who used the pseudonym Allan Kardec (“ah-LAHN kar-DECK”). For 10 points each:
Name this movement whose beliefs are syncretized with Catholicism to form the religion of Santo Daime (“SAHN-too DYE-mee”). It was inspired in part by the visions of Emanuel Swedenborg.
Kardec wrote a handbook for these people who purport to help people communicate with spirits through séances (“SAY-on-sizz”).
Another inspiration for Allan Kardec was this German doctor’s idea of “animal magnetism.” He claimed to be able to cure people through his own touch.
Spiritism [prompt on spiritualism]
mediums [prompt on spiritualists or spiritists]
Franz Mesmer [or Franz Friedrich Anton Mesmer] &lt;Religion&gt;
This character, whose travels were inspired by the author's experience as a naval surgeon, serves alongside Hugh Strap, and marries Narcissa after inheriting funds from his father in Argentina. For ten points each:
Name this character. Along with a similar novel about Peregrine Pickle, a book titled for the 'adventures of' this character is the best-known work of Tobias Smollett.
The Adventures of Roderick Random is a classic example of this genre, which Smollett was inspired to write after translating an earlier work in this genre, Gil Blas. Works in this genre are typically satirical biographies of ingenious rogues.
In this later novel, Mr. Crawley is pleased to hear that the girls are reading Smollett, assuming that they are reading his histories, when in fact they are reading his picaresques. Becky Sharp features in this William Makepeace Thackeray novel.
Roderick Random [accept either underlined part]
picaresque
Vanity Fair &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Krol&gt;
Wining Boy recounts “It felt like the longer I stood there the bigger I got” after calling out to these figures at a railway crossing. For 10 points each:
Name these figures, supposedly the spirits of Boy Charles and four hobos who were burnt alive by a lynch mob. They are blamed for a series of suspicious deaths, including that of the former slave-owner Sutter, who fell down a well before the beginning of the play in which they appear.
The Ghosts of the Yellow Dog are repeatedly invoked in this play, which takes place during the 1930s. Boy Willie unsuccessfully tries to convince Berniece to sell the title object of this play so that he can buy Sutter's old land.
This playwright included The Piano Lesson and Fences in his ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle.
the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog [prompt on ghosts]
The Piano Lesson
August Wilson &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
One member of this family wrote a Gothic novel in which Svengali hypnotizes the tone-deaf Trilby and makes her a talented singer. For 10 points each:
Name this family, another member of which wrote a Gothic novel which opens “Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again.”
This Daphne du Maurier story is sometimes read as an allegory for the Blitz. Nat Hocken and his family are terrorized by normally docile fowl in this story which, like du Maurier's Rebecca and Jamaica Inn, was adapted into an Alfred Hitchcock film.
This author's story “The Demon Lover” is a Gothic tale set after the Blitz. This Irishwoman depicted the aftermath of the Blitz in the novel The Heat of the Day.
du Maurier family [George and Daphne du Maurier]
“The Birds”
Elizabeth Bowen &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
Six of the seven “horrid” novels in this genre that Isabella Thorpe recommends to Catherine Morland in Jane Austen's <em>Northanger Abbey</em> were published by Minerva Press. For 10 points each:
Name this genre developed in the late 18th century exemplified by Matthew Lewis's The Monk and Ann Radcliffe's The Mysteries of Udolpho. Its hallmarks included supernatural themes and exotic settings like Italy.
Gothic literature was closely tied to a genre of literature named by this adjective, which emphasized the passionate feelings of its characters. A Laurence Sterne travelogue has this adjective in its title.
William Beckford parodied the novels of Minerva Press and other sentimental literature in Azemia, but is better known for this Gothic novel whose title caliph sacrifices fifty children, among other depravities, as part of a contract with the Giaour.
Gothic literature
sentimental literature [accept A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy]
Vathek &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Kothari&gt;
In this play, Santiago tells his wife that he sees “a line of little ants carrying breadcrumbs on their backs,” but the crumbs they are taking are his “dignity.” For 10 points each:
Name this play. Juan Julian is shot in this play as he reads, in Spanish, the line “what logic can there be in killing a man to regain harmony with a woman...” as part of his job as a lector in a cigar factory.
Anna in the Tropics is by Nilo Cruz, an author of this ethnicity. Cesar and Nestor Castillo perform on I Love Lucy in a novel by Oscar Hijuelos, another author of this ethnicity.
In Anna in the Tropics, the lector Juan Julian reads the cigar factory workers Anna Karenina, a novel by this Russian author of War and Peace.
Anna in the Tropics
Cuban-American [prompt on American, Latino, Hispanic] [The novel is The Mambo Kings play Songs of Love.]
Leo Tolstoy &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
Lorenzo Valla determined that the author of <em>On the Divine Names</em> was not really a figure nicknamed for this location. For 10 points each:
Name this place, where a man named Dionysius was converted upon hearing a sermon now named for it. That sermon named for this place was prompted by an inscription “To The Unknown God.”
Pseudo-Dionysius' writings distinguish Neoplatonic henosis from this mystical process, in which humans become like unto God or united with God.
An incremental approach to theosis is described in The Ladder of Divine Ascent, which was written by a man with this first name. Another man with this first name began his namesake gospel by equating Jesus to Logos, or “the Word.”
the Areopagus [or the Areios Pagos; or Ares Rock; or Mars' Hill; prompt on Athens; accept (Pseudo-)Dionysius the Areopagite]
theosis [or divinization; accept apotheosis; accept deification]
John [or Johannes; accept John Climacus]  &lt;RMP Christian/Bible Religion - Smith&gt;
An amnesiac member of this profession named Guy Roland tries to remember his pre-World War II identity in Patrick Modiano's novel <em>Missing Person</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. A member of this profession named Wallas murders Daniel Dupont and searches for one of the title objects in Alain Robbe-Grillet's novel The Erasers.
Modiano's Missing Person won this most prestigious award in French literature in 1978. The male-dominated juries that decided this award in its early years inspired the creation of the Prix Femina, whose jury consists entirely of women.
Robbe-Grillet's The Erasers is a major example of an experimental style of French novel described by this adjective, a phrase coined by Émile Henriot. Robbe-Grillet also collaborated with Alain Resnais, a director associated with a French film “wave” described by this adjective.
detective [accept private investigator or similar answers]
Prix Goncourt [or Goncourt Prize]
new [or New Novel; or French New Wave; or Nouveau Roman; or La Nouvelle Vague]  &lt;Literature European - Morrison&gt;
The central couple in this play reconcile by pretending to be a bear and a squirrel. For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 play whose protagonist, Jimmy Porter, cheats on his wife, Alison, with Helena Charles. This play helped coin the name of a movement that is associated with kitchen sink realism.
John Osborne, the author of Look Back in Anger, was a member of the Angry Young Men along with Kingsley Amis, who wrote about a man with this profession giving a drunken lecture on “Merrie England” in the novel Lucky Jim.
An Angry Young Man with this surname described the stoning of a baby in Saved, a play that was influential in abolishing theatre censorship in the United Kingdom. This is also the surname of the protagonist of Kingsley Amis' novel Colonel Sun.
Look Back in Anger
university professor [accept answers related to teaching or word forms thereof]
Bond [accept Edward Bond or James Bond]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - McCullar&gt;
The first poem in this collection onomatopoeically describes “ospreys, on the islet in the river”, and the critic Ted Gioia argues that it was adapted from erotic folk music originally performed in its country's South. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 305 poems, including one that describes a group of archers digging ferns for food while thinking of home. Its first half includes 160 “Airs of the States,” and it also includes “Major Court Hymns” and “Eulogies”.
The length of the Classic of Poetry inspired the later anthology Three Hundred Tang Poems. This poet of “Song of the War Chariots” had the most poems included in the anthology with 39.
“Drinking Alone by Moonlight,” a poem collected in Three Hundred Tang Poems, opens by considering a cup of this substance “under the flowering trees” and compares type of this intoxicant to “a saint” and “a sage.”
The Classic of Poetry [or Book of Songs, Book of Odes, or similar translations; or Shijing]
Du Fu [accept Tu Fu, Du Shaoling, Du Gongfu]
wine &lt;Literature World - Krol&gt;
Barbara Johnson suggested that the critical styles of Barthes and Lacan owe much to this author's “critical poems” in a translator's note to his collection <em>Divagations</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Symbolist poet who mentored Paul Valery while leading the Mardistes. The speaker opines “These nymphs, I would perpetuate them” to open his eclogue “The Afternoon of a Faun.”
Quentin Meillassoux determined that this Mallarme poem's “unique Number, which cannot be another” is 707 in a study entitled The Number and the Siren. The original typography of this poem features several typefaces and liberal use of white space.
Mallarme praised this poet's use of “the bare blade of his mind” in a poem named for his tomb. Edouard Manet illustrated Mallarme's translation of this poet's “The Raven.”
Stéphane Mallarmé (MAL-har-MAY)
A Throw of the Dice will Never Abolish Chance [or Un coup de dés jamais n'abolira le hasard; accept any translation mentioning a dice throw or dice roll]
Edgar Allan Poe [accept “The Tomb of Edgar Poe”]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
In this play, one character interrupts a recitation with claims of having a toothache. That character also multiplies two ten-digit numbers. For 10 points each,
Name this play in which the Professor kills his student out of frustration at the end of the play, just as he did to all his previous students.
The Lesson is a play by this author of The Bald Soprano and a play in which all of Berenger's friends turn into the title animal, Rhinoceros.
Ionesco published another play titled for the French translation of this first name and subtitled “how to get rid of it”. A Peter Shaffer play about a composer's jealousy and eventual murder of his rival is titled for this first name.
The Lesson (or La Lecon)
Eugene Ionesco
Amadeus [accept Amedée, or How to get rid of it]  &lt;Literature European - Santanam&gt;
Many characters leave this location in search for Bulkington after he slips out while they were drinking. For 10 points each:
Name this establishment run by Peter Coffin. The narrator of the work in which this establishment appears can't decide whether a painting in it is the “Black Sea in a midnight gale” or a “Hyperborean winter scene” before deciding it depicts a “Cape Horner in a great hurricane.”
This lodger of The Spouter Inn is first seen when he returns to his room after attempting to sell embalmed heads. This man's tattoos are compared to a counterpane after the narrator wakes up with this man's arm around him.
Queequeg and Ishmael lodge together in The Spouter Inn at the beginning of this novel by Herman Melville.
The Spouter Inn
Queequeg
Moby-Dick &lt;Literature American - McCullar&gt;
This author of “Fungoids” and “Negations” is described as “a thurd-rait poit hoo beleevz imself a grate jeneus” in an encyclopedia entry from the future. For 10 points each-
Name this character who makes a deal with the Devil to travel 100 years forward in time, only to discover that he's primarily remembered as the main character of a short story.
This author included the short story “Enoch Soames” in his collection Seven Men. He also wrote the satirical novel Zuleika (ZOO-LEE-KAH) Dobson.
Beerbohm wrote a book of parodies of popular authors named for a “garland” on this holiday. That book titled for this holiday includes a mock Rudyard Kipling poem about Santa Claus being arrested.
Enoch Soames [accept either or both underlined parts]
Max Beerbohm
Christmas Day  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Tong&gt;
A chore-girl's performance of this action that titles one of the author's “Home Ballads” involves draping black shrouds since “Mistress Mary is dead and gone.” For 10 points each:
Name this action, a European folk tradition in which certain animals would be informed of births, deaths, marriages, and other events in a human family's life.
This Quaker poet of “Telling the Bees” wrote about “a universe of sky and snow” in “Snow-Bound.”
This author of the poem “Song of the Queen Bee” is better known as an editor who co-wrote a style guide with William Strunk and as an author of children's literature such as Charlotte's Web.
telling the bees [or telling of the bees]
John Greenleaf Whittier
E(lwyn) B(rooks) White &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
This author created a speaker who tells a vulture “You see what I am: change me, change me!” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “The Woman at the Washington Zoo.” This poet wrote of a man who “fell into the State” and “hunched in its belly till [his] wet fur froze” “ in “The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner.”
Jarrell defended this poet in the essay “To the Laodeceans,” and wrote an essay on his “Home Burial.” This poet also wrote “Mending Wall” and “Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
Jarrell labelled this work “the most awful of Frost's smaller poems.” Jarrell claims this poem makes an “if a diabolical machine, then a diabolical mechanic” argument through the story of a “dimpled spider, fat and white” holding a moth.
Randall Jarrell (juh-REL)
Robert Frost
“Design”  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
In this book, the holy sites of Islam are shut down in 1979 and Arabic soon after goes extinct. For 10 points each:
Name this book, reportedly an edited version of notes by Dr Philip Raven. A benevolent “Dictatorship of the Air” is described in this book, which records history until 2106.
This Edward Bellamy book inspired the founding of “Nationalist Clubs” in the Anglophone world. In this novel, Julian West awakes in the year 2000 in a utopian America.
Edward Bellamy adhered to this political philosophy, which inspired H.G. Wells' membership in the Fabian Society. Oscar Wilde complained that people's innate talents were wasted on fixing the problems of capitalism in an essay titled for “The Soul of Man under [this political philosophy].”
The Shape of Things to Come (by H. G. Wells)
Looking Backward: 2000–1887
socialism [do not accept “communism”]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
The literary movement Generation of '27, which included Federico Garcia Lorca, formed to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the funeral of this author. For ten points each:
Name this Spanish poet, whose works include Soledades. He pioneered the ornate, ornamental literary style of culteranismo against the conceptismo developed by his long-time rival, Francisco de Quevedo.
de Gongora is declared to be a 'good poet' in the ranking of contemporary poets given in the work Journey to Parnassus, written by this author of some Exemplary Novels and Don Quixote.
Another of de Gongora's major works is a classically-inspired 'fable' titled for two mythological characters. This is the female character mentioned in that title, whose name was also used for the title of Cervantes' first novel, a pastoral work which is memorably saved during the burning of Don Quixote's library.
Luis de Gongora
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
La Galatea [accept La Fabula de Polifemo y Galatea]  &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
This location was believed to be within the land of Boinca, which later became conflated with Bimini. For 10 points each:
Name this location. Juan Ponce de León ventured into Florida in 1513 in search of this spring and its healing waters.
This man was said to have bathed in the Fountain six times in a forged letter allegedly sent when he was 562. This Nestorian king ruled a realm filled with magical creatures in either India or Ethiopia.
This Greek term refers to mythical heal-alls such as the elixir of life and the Fountain of Youth's waters. The Greek goddess of this name is mentioned alongside her sister Hygeia in the Hippocratic Oath.
Fountain of Youth
Prester John [or Presbyter John; or Presbyter Johannes; prompt on John]
panacea &lt;RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth - Smith&gt;
Surrealist poetry was introduced to this country via collections like <em>Altazor</em> by Vicente Huidobro, who founded a literary movement called “creationism”. For 10 points each:
Name this country. An influential poetry collection from this country includes poems like “In My Sky at Twilight”, and opens with a poem celebrating the “white hills, white thighs” of the title “Body of a Woman”.
Huidobro ended up in a long-running conflict with this other Chilean author after he claimed that the poem 'In My Sky at Twilight', from this poet's collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, was plagiarized.
Huidobro claimed that Neruda poem was a very close plagiarism of a section from this other author's early prose work The Gardener. After stealing money from her husband, the female protagonist realizes 'I have robbed my house; I have robbed my country' in this author's novel The Home and the World.
Republic of Chile
Pablo Neruda [or Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto]
Rabindranath Tagore &lt;Literature World - Krol&gt;
This character takes pleasure in operating a newly acquired gramophone to play excerpts from works like <em>La Traviata</em> and <em>The Tales of Hoffmann</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose visit to a Swiss Alps sanatorium to see his tubercular cousin Joachim Ziemssen is prolonged by his own failing health.
In a lecture given at Princeton, this German creator of Hans Castorp spoke of Wagnerian influences, including the use of leitmotifs, in his novels like Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain.
A leitmotif used in The Magic Mountain is Castorp borrowing a pencil. He does this once from a childhood schoolmate with “Kirghiz eyes,” and once from this Russian patient, his romantic interest in the novel.
Hans Castorp [accept either or both underlined parts]
Thomas Mann
Clawdia Chauchat [accept either or both underlined parts]  &lt;Literature European - Suh&gt;
The characters in this novel walk past signs in the street that say “Keep the Water White.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 novel, the first to document the so-called “Windrush generation” in the title city. This novel follows the Trinidadian immigrant Moses Aloetta and is the most famous work of Samuel Selvon.
The Lonely Londoners was written in what Kamau Brathwaite calls a “nation language,” since it is a Caribbean-specific form of this language. Other writers that have written in non-standard forms of this language include Louise Bennett and James Whitcomb Riley.
Although Samuel Selvon is often considered the first author to publish a work in a “nation language,” Brathwaite attributes that feat to this much-earlier author. This author wrote the essay De vulgari eloquentia, and he pioneered a poetic form in which three-line stanzas are linked by rhymes in alternating lines.
The Lonely Londoners
English
Dante Alighieri  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
A woman from Aleppo named Maryam was named for her prowess at making these things. For 10 points each:
Name these items that were the subject of a treatise subtitled “bread and milk for children” and written in Middle English for its author's son, Lewis. They were centered on two plates called a rete and a mater.
Two answers required These two people had a child named Astrolabe after a love affair that ended in one of these people's uncle Fulbert castrating the other. Computer analysis has shown that a series of letters between these two people may have actually been written by one of them to himself.
This city's cathedral contains an early sculptural depiction of an astrolabe, and is located near a tower whose upper floors curve leftward in an unsuccessful attempt to rectify an incident of soil subsidence.
astrolabes [accept Maryam al-Astrulabi]
Peter Abelard and Heloise [accept Pierre for Peter]
Pisa &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
Regina begins an affair with her professor's wife Martha in a novel titled for this activity by Susan Choi. For 10 points each:
Name this activity. Malala Yousafzai's autobiography is subtitled “The Story of a Girl Who Stood Up for [this activity] and was Shot by the Taliban.”
This earlier author recounted the 1900 Paris Exposition in “The Dynamo and the Virgin,” a chapter of the third-person autobiography titled for his “Education.”
This author included the oft-excerpted chapter “Aria” in his autobiography Hunger of Memory, which is subtitled for his “Education.”
education
Henry Adams
Richard Rodriguez &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
Bart Ehrman has argued that a “legend” possibility should be added to an argument popularized by this man. For 10 points each:
Name this British author who popularized a trilemma argument for the divinity of Jesus by offering that Jesus was either a lunatic, liar, or Lord. He also wrote The Screwtape Letters and The Chronicles of Narnia.
Lewis presented his version of that trilemma in the BBC radio talks that became this book about the fundamentals that all members of a broad religious group should agree on.
Lewis' own conversion story was laid out in this book titled for a Wordsworth poem. According to Lewis, its title emotion is the best translation of the euphoric Sehnsucht he experiences “stabs” of before his conversion.
C. S. Lewis
Mere Christianity
Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life &lt;RMP Christian/Bible Religion - Smith&gt;
<em>Two-part answer required</em> While doing this action with this person, one man received the threat “stop calling me a crypto-Nazi, or I'll sock you in the face”. For 10 points each:
Another man remarked that he was “in the position of a kind of Jeremiah” while promoting his position that “the American dream is at the expense of the American negro” at an event at Cambridge during which he did this thing with this person.
This rival of Buckley and author of Myra Breckenridge was the target of the first threat; this gay author aroused controversy by depicting a same-sex relationship in his The City and the Pillar.
By consensus, this black intellectual defeated Buckley in their Cambridge debate. This author of Notes of a Native Son and The Fire Next Time himself depicted a gay love affair in Giovanni's Room.
debating William F. Buckley, Jr. [accept synonyms of debate, prompt on partial answer with “with whom?” if “debating” is given and “what happened?” if only “Buckley” is given]
(Eugene Luther) Gore Vidal
James Baldwin &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
A line in which one of these characters “bar to” the other “a stif burdoun” may suggest that these two characters have a homosexual relationship. For 10 points each:
Name these two pilgrims, who ride together. One of them is “hot and lecherous” and has a face covered in pimples, while the other has “hair as yellow as wax” and cannot grow a beard.
The Summoner and the Pardoner are characters in this Middle English collection by Geoffrey Chaucer.
At the end of the Pardoner's Tale, this character tells him that he'll cut off his bollocks and enshrine them in a “hog's turd.” Earlier, this character interrupts Chaucer's Tale of Sir Topaz since his rhymes are “doggerel” and “purgatory.”
the Summoner and the Pardoner [accept Somnour or Somonour in place of “Summoner”]
The Canterbury Tales
the Host [or the Hoost, or accept either or both of Harry Bailly]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
In an obituary, Terry Castle recalled being invited by this writer to a dinner party where she was promptly ignored by all the other guests. For 10 points each:
Name this writer who, in that essay, repeatedly claimed her novel The Volcano Lover was misunderstood. She analyzed victim-blaming in talk about cancer and tuberculosis in an essay written while she was being treated for breast cancer.
Castle recalled Sontag's obsession with having produced this Samuel Beckett play during the siege of Sarajevo. Lucky delivers a single frantic monologue in this play, which centers on the non-doings of Vladimir and Estragon.
An essay from Castle's book The Apparitional Lesbian analyzes the potential attraction between the feminists Olive Chancellor and Verena Tarrant in this Henry James novel, which Castle deemed “the first 'lesbian novel' written in English.” The name of this novel may have inspired the name of a type of informal same-sex “marriage” between women.
Susan Sontag
Waiting for Godot [or En attendant Godot]
The Bostonians &lt;Literature American - Kothari&gt;
This author wrote about the librarian Sipho Makhaya in his play <em>Nothing but the Truth</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this actor and playwright. This member of the Serpent Players recounted being called a “terrorist” for playing Othello in Janet Suzman's 1987 production of that play in his essay “Apartheid and Othello.”
John Kani is an actor from this country. B. B. Mdledle, another author from this country, translated Julius Caesar into Xhosa.
South African playwright Welcome Msomi wrote uMabatha, a Zulu adaptation of this Shakespeare play. In uMabatha, three Sangoma replace a trio in this play that utter the phrase “fair is foul and foul is fair.”
John Kani
Republic of South Africa
Macbeth &lt;Literature Shakespeare - French&gt;
Legendarily, Richard Huelsenbeck chose the name for this movement by sliding a paper knife into a dictionary. For 10 points each:
Name this movement whose fouding adherents frequented the Cabaret Voltaire. Huelsenbeck selected a French colloquialism for “hobbyhorse” as the name for this anti-art movement.
This man co-founded the Cabaret Voltaire with Emmy Hennings and wrote the first manifesto for the Dada movement. He wrote “jolifanto bambla o falli bambla” to open his best-known piece, the sound poem “Karawane”.
Dadaist literature was heavily inspired by Alfred Jarry's plays starring this character. This character becomes a king in a Jarry play that begins with the nonsense word “Merdre!”
Dadaism
Hugo Ball
Ubu Roi [or Père Ubu; or Pa Ubu; Papa Ubu; or Father Ubu; or King Ubu; or Ubu Roi; or King Turd]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
The author described this set of poems as “the thin gleanings of a long weary while” to Robert Bridges. For 10 points each:
Name this set of poems which includes “No Worst, There is None,” “Thou art indeed just, Lord” and “Carrion Comfort.” These six poems express the religious doubts of the poet.
This author's last words were “I am so happy, I am so happy. I loved my life” despite the late-life depression that inspired his “terrible sonnets.” This possibly homosexual Jesuit wrote “Pied Beauty” in his trademark sprung rhythm.
This ode by Hopkins opens with an invocation to “Thou mastering me / God!” It is dedicated to five Franciscan nuns who drowned during the title event.
terrible sonnets [or the sonnets of desolation]
Gerard Manley Hopkins
“The Wreck of the Deutschland”  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In this play, Hansy Rilow <strong>(Ree-lov)</strong> compares himself to Othello and Bluebeard upon burning a pornographic book. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Frank Wedekind, subtitled “a children's tragedy,” in which Moritz commits suicide after getting bad grades and the atheist Melchior Gabor assaults the masochistic Wendla.
Wedekind's play was translated from the German in the 1970s by this British poet laureate, whose collection Birthday Letters contains several poems addressed to his deceased wife, Sylvia Plath.
Spring Awakening was also translated and modernized by this contemporary American novelist author of Purity and Freedom. This novelist attacked the experimental fiction of William Gaddis in his essay Mr. Difficult.
Spring Awakening [accept Fruhlings Erwachen or Spring's Awakening]
Ted Hughes
Jonathan Franzen &lt;Literature European - Myers&gt;
This collection opens with a poem whose speaker fails to find the right words for a poem to tell a woman he loves her, only to be told by his Muse, “Fool, look in thy heart, and write.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection whose dedicatee is believed to be Penelope Devereux. The speaker of another poem in this collection notes “With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!”
Astrophil and Stella was written by this Elizabethan poet of “The Defense of Poesy.” This man detailed the brief turmoil of Basilius' kingdom in The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia.
Sidney's “The Defense of Poesy” is not to be confused with this much later poet's essay “The Defense of Poetry.” Poems by this man include “Adonais” and “Ozymandias.”
Astrophil and Stella [or Astrophel and Stella]
Sir Philip Sidney
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - McCullar&gt;
In this story, the title character has a heart attack in his hotel room in Capri at the end of a world tour with his family. For 10 points each:
Name this story by Ivan Bunin in which the title character is “liberal with his money” while abroad but shockingly indifferent to the poverty around him.
“The Gentleman from San Francisco” contains an epigraph about this city. In The Iceman Cometh, Hugo periodically shouts “the days grow hot, O [this city], while an F. Scott Fitzgerald story is titled for this city “Revisited.”
This author depicted a post-apocalyptic America where “The Great Burning” left old houses as “dead places” in his story “By the Waters of Babylon”. This author also wrote the epic John Brown's Body.
“The Gentleman from San Francisco”
Babylon
Stephen Vincent Benet &lt;Literature American - Santanam&gt;
A characteristic example of these statements advises to “Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires.” For 10 points each:
Name these seventy statements, found between two “Memorable Fancies.” Another of them says that “The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.”
“Rintrah roars” in “The Argument” that opens this prose work, which is titled after the magnum opus of Emmanuel Swedenborg. The Proverbs of Hell are found in this prose work by William Blake.
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell claims that this poet was “in fetters when he wrote of Angels and God” because he was “of the Devil's party without knowing it.” In a Blakean epic named for him, this poet of Paradise Lost has a feminine “contrary” named Ololon.
Proverbs of Hell [prompt on proverbs]
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
John Milton &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In this play, Santiago tells his wife that he sees “a line of little ants carrying breadcrumbs on their backs,” but the crumbs they are taking are his “dignity.” For 10 points each:
Name this play. Juan Julian is shot in this play as he reads, in Spanish, the line “what logic can there be in killing a man to regain harmony with a woman...” as part of his job as a lector in a cigar factory.
Anna in the Tropics is by Nilo Cruz, an author of this ethnicity. Cesar and Nestor Castillo perform on I Love Lucy in a novel by Oscar Hijuelos, another author of this ethnicity.
In Anna in the Tropics, the lector Juan Julian reads the cigar factory workers Anna Karenina, a novel by this Russian author of War and Peace.
Anna in the Tropics
Cuban-American [prompt on American, Latino, Hispanic] [The novel is The Mambo Kings play Songs of Love.]
Leo Tolstoy &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
Lorenzo Valla determined that the author of <em>On the Divine Names</em> was not really a figure nicknamed for this location. For 10 points each:
Name this place, where a man named Dionysius was converted upon hearing a sermon now named for it. That sermon named for this place was prompted by an inscription “To The Unknown God.”
Pseudo-Dionysius' writings distinguish Neoplatonic henosis from this mystical process, in which humans become like unto God or united with God.
An incremental approach to theosis is described in The Ladder of Divine Ascent, which was written by a man with this first name. Another man with this first name began his namesake gospel by equating Jesus to Logos, or “the Word.”
the Areopagus [or the Areios Pagos; or Ares Rock; or Mars' Hill; prompt on Athens; accept (Pseudo-)Dionysius the Areopagite]
theosis [or divinization; accept apotheosis; accept deification]
John [or Johannes; accept John Climacus]  &lt;RMP Christian/Bible Religion - Smith&gt;
An amnesiac member of this profession named Guy Roland tries to remember his pre-World War II identity in Patrick Modiano's novel <em>Missing Person</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. A member of this profession named Wallas murders Daniel Dupont and searches for one of the title objects in Alain Robbe-Grillet's novel The Erasers.
Modiano's Missing Person won this most prestigious award in French literature in 1978. The male-dominated juries that decided this award in its early years inspired the creation of the Prix Femina, whose jury consists entirely of women.
Robbe-Grillet's The Erasers is a major example of an experimental style of French novel described by this adjective, a phrase coined by Émile Henriot. Robbe-Grillet also collaborated with Alain Resnais, a director associated with a French film “wave” described by this adjective.
detective [accept private investigator or similar answers]
Prix Goncourt [or Goncourt Prize]
new [or New Novel; or French New Wave; or Nouveau Roman; or La Nouvelle Vague]  &lt;Literature European - Morrison&gt;
The central couple in this play reconcile by pretending to be a bear and a squirrel. For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 play whose protagonist, Jimmy Porter, cheats on his wife, Alison, with Helena Charles. This play helped coin the name of a movement that is associated with kitchen sink realism.
John Osborne, the author of Look Back in Anger, was a member of the Angry Young Men along with Kingsley Amis, who wrote about a man with this profession giving a drunken lecture on “Merrie England” in the novel Lucky Jim.
An Angry Young Man with this surname described the stoning of a baby in Saved, a play that was influential in abolishing theatre censorship in the United Kingdom. This is also the surname of the protagonist of Kingsley Amis' novel Colonel Sun.
Look Back in Anger
university professor [accept answers related to teaching or word forms thereof]
Bond [accept Edward Bond or James Bond]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - McCullar&gt;
The first poem in this collection onomatopoeically describes “ospreys, on the islet in the river”, and the critic Ted Gioia argues that it was adapted from erotic folk music originally performed in its country's South. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 305 poems, including one that describes a group of archers digging ferns for food while thinking of home. Its first half includes 160 “Airs of the States,” and it also includes “Major Court Hymns” and “Eulogies”.
The length of the Classic of Poetry inspired the later anthology Three Hundred Tang Poems. This poet of “Song of the War Chariots” had the most poems included in the anthology with 39.
“Drinking Alone by Moonlight,” a poem collected in Three Hundred Tang Poems, opens by considering a cup of this substance “under the flowering trees” and compares type of this intoxicant to “a saint” and “a sage.”
The Classic of Poetry [or Book of Songs, Book of Odes, or similar translations; or Shijing]
Du Fu [accept Tu Fu, Du Shaoling, Du Gongfu]
wine &lt;Literature World - Krol&gt;
Barbara Johnson suggested that the critical styles of Barthes and Lacan owe much to this author's “critical poems” in a translator's note to his collection <em>Divagations</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Symbolist poet who mentored Paul Valery while leading the Mardistes. The speaker opines “These nymphs, I would perpetuate them” to open his eclogue “The Afternoon of a Faun.”
Quentin Meillassoux determined that this Mallarme poem's “unique Number, which cannot be another” is 707 in a study entitled The Number and the Siren. The original typography of this poem features several typefaces and liberal use of white space.
Mallarme praised this poet's use of “the bare blade of his mind” in a poem named for his tomb. Edouard Manet illustrated Mallarme's translation of this poet's “The Raven.”
Stéphane Mallarmé (MAL-har-MAY)
A Throw of the Dice will Never Abolish Chance [or Un coup de dés jamais n'abolira le hasard; accept any translation mentioning a dice throw or dice roll]
Edgar Allan Poe [accept “The Tomb of Edgar Poe”]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
In this play, one character interrupts a recitation with claims of having a toothache. That character also multiplies two ten-digit numbers. For 10 points each,
Name this play in which the Professor kills his student out of frustration at the end of the play, just as he did to all his previous students.
The Lesson is a play by this author of The Bald Soprano and a play in which all of Berenger's friends turn into the title animal, Rhinoceros.
Ionesco published another play titled for the French translation of this first name and subtitled “how to get rid of it”. A Peter Shaffer play about a composer's jealousy and eventual murder of his rival is titled for this first name.
The Lesson (or La Lecon)
Eugene Ionesco
Amadeus [accept Amedée, or How to get rid of it]  &lt;Literature European - Santanam&gt;
Many characters leave this location in search for Bulkington after he slips out while they were drinking. For 10 points each:
Name this establishment run by Peter Coffin. The narrator of the work in which this establishment appears can't decide whether a painting in it is the “Black Sea in a midnight gale” or a “Hyperborean winter scene” before deciding it depicts a “Cape Horner in a great hurricane.”
This lodger of The Spouter Inn is first seen when he returns to his room after attempting to sell embalmed heads. This man's tattoos are compared to a counterpane after the narrator wakes up with this man's arm around him.
Queequeg and Ishmael lodge together in The Spouter Inn at the beginning of this novel by Herman Melville.
The Spouter Inn
Queequeg
Moby-Dick &lt;Literature American - McCullar&gt;
This author of “Fungoids” and “Negations” is described as “a thurd-rait poit hoo beleevz imself a grate jeneus” in an encyclopedia entry from the future. For 10 points each-
Name this character who makes a deal with the Devil to travel 100 years forward in time, only to discover that he's primarily remembered as the main character of a short story.
This author included the short story “Enoch Soames” in his collection Seven Men. He also wrote the satirical novel Zuleika (ZOO-LEE-KAH) Dobson.
Beerbohm wrote a book of parodies of popular authors named for a “garland” on this holiday. That book titled for this holiday includes a mock Rudyard Kipling poem about Santa Claus being arrested.
Enoch Soames [accept either or both underlined parts]
Max Beerbohm
Christmas Day  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Tong&gt;
The use of this technique spanning an octave over 100 notes on the last word inspired the name of the <em>Missa Caput</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which several notes are used to sing a syllable of text, common in Gregorian chant.
Melismas were used by this ethnoreligous group's Masorete scribes that wrote the rules for cantillation of its holy text. Abraham Idelsohn was the “father” of the modern musicology of this ethnic group, who are considered the inventors of klezmer music.
The Christian hymn “Angels We Have Heard on High” contains a melisma on the “o” in this Latin word. That song is based on a hymn that begins with this word, which follows the Kyrie to close the introductory rites.
melisma [or forms like melismatic]
Jews [accept Ashkenazi Jews]
Gloria [in excelsis Deo]  &lt;Arts Music - Smith&gt;
A chore-girl's performance of this action that titles one of the author's “Home Ballads” involves draping black shrouds since “Mistress Mary is dead and gone.” For 10 points each:
Name this action, a European folk tradition in which certain animals would be informed of births, deaths, marriages, and other events in a human family's life.
This Quaker poet of “Telling the Bees” wrote about “a universe of sky and snow” in “Snow-Bound.”
This author of the poem “Song of the Queen Bee” is better known as an editor who co-wrote a style guide with William Strunk and as an author of children's literature such as Charlotte's Web.
telling the bees [or telling of the bees]
John Greenleaf Whittier
E(lwyn) B(rooks) White &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
This author created a speaker who tells a vulture “You see what I am: change me, change me!” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “The Woman at the Washington Zoo.” This poet wrote of a man who “fell into the State” and “hunched in its belly till [his] wet fur froze” “ in “The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner.”
Jarrell defended this poet in the essay “To the Laodeceans,” and wrote an essay on his “Home Burial.” This poet also wrote “Mending Wall” and “Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
Jarrell labelled this work “the most awful of Frost's smaller poems.” Jarrell claims this poem makes an “if a diabolical machine, then a diabolical mechanic” argument through the story of a “dimpled spider, fat and white” holding a moth.
Randall Jarrell (juh-REL)
Robert Frost
“Design”  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
In this book, the holy sites of Islam are shut down in 1979 and Arabic soon after goes extinct. For 10 points each:
Name this book, reportedly an edited version of notes by Dr Philip Raven. A benevolent “Dictatorship of the Air” is described in this book, which records history until 2106.
This Edward Bellamy book inspired the founding of “Nationalist Clubs” in the Anglophone world. In this novel, Julian West awakes in the year 2000 in a utopian America.
Edward Bellamy adhered to this political philosophy, which inspired H.G. Wells' membership in the Fabian Society. Oscar Wilde complained that people's innate talents were wasted on fixing the problems of capitalism in an essay titled for “The Soul of Man under [this political philosophy].”
The Shape of Things to Come (by H. G. Wells)
Looking Backward: 2000–1887
socialism [do not accept “communism”]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
The literary movement Generation of '27, which included Federico Garcia Lorca, formed to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the funeral of this author. For ten points each:
Name this Spanish poet, whose works include Soledades. He pioneered the ornate, ornamental literary style of culteranismo against the conceptismo developed by his long-time rival, Francisco de Quevedo.
de Gongora is declared to be a 'good poet' in the ranking of contemporary poets given in the work Journey to Parnassus, written by this author of some Exemplary Novels and Don Quixote.
Another of de Gongora's major works is a classically-inspired 'fable' titled for two mythological characters. This is the female character mentioned in that title, whose name was also used for the title of Cervantes' first novel, a pastoral work which is memorably saved during the burning of Don Quixote's library.
Luis de Gongora
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
La Galatea [accept La Fabula de Polifemo y Galatea]  &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
This location was believed to be within the land of Boinca, which later became conflated with Bimini. For 10 points each:
Name this location. Juan Ponce de León ventured into Florida in 1513 in search of this spring and its healing waters.
This man was said to have bathed in the Fountain six times in a forged letter allegedly sent when he was 562. This Nestorian king ruled a realm filled with magical creatures in either India or Ethiopia.
This Greek term refers to mythical heal-alls such as the elixir of life and the Fountain of Youth's waters. The Greek goddess of this name is mentioned alongside her sister Hygeia in the Hippocratic Oath.
Fountain of Youth
Prester John [or Presbyter John; or Presbyter Johannes; prompt on John]
panacea &lt;RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth - Smith&gt;
Surrealist poetry was introduced to this country via collections like <em>Altazor</em> by Vicente Huidobro, who founded a literary movement called “creationism”. For 10 points each:
Name this country. An influential poetry collection from this country includes poems like “In My Sky at Twilight”, and opens with a poem celebrating the “white hills, white thighs” of the title “Body of a Woman”.
Huidobro ended up in a long-running conflict with this other Chilean author after he claimed that the poem 'In My Sky at Twilight', from this poet's collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, was plagiarized.
Huidobro claimed that Neruda poem was a very close plagiarism of a section from this other author's early prose work The Gardener. After stealing money from her husband, the female protagonist realizes 'I have robbed my house; I have robbed my country' in this author's novel The Home and the World.
Republic of Chile
Pablo Neruda [or Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto]
Rabindranath Tagore &lt;Literature World - Krol&gt;
This character takes pleasure in operating a newly acquired gramophone to play excerpts from works like <em>La Traviata</em> and <em>The Tales of Hoffmann</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose visit to a Swiss Alps sanatorium to see his tubercular cousin Joachim Ziemssen is prolonged by his own failing health.
In a lecture given at Princeton, this German creator of Hans Castorp spoke of Wagnerian influences, including the use of leitmotifs, in his novels like Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain.
A leitmotif used in The Magic Mountain is Castorp borrowing a pencil. He does this once from a childhood schoolmate with “Kirghiz eyes,” and once from this Russian patient, his romantic interest in the novel.
Hans Castorp [accept either or both underlined parts]
Thomas Mann
Clawdia Chauchat [accept either or both underlined parts]  &lt;Literature European - Suh&gt;
The characters in this novel walk past signs in the street that say “Keep the Water White.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 novel, the first to document the so-called “Windrush generation” in the title city. This novel follows the Trinidadian immigrant Moses Aloetta and is the most famous work of Samuel Selvon.
The Lonely Londoners was written in what Kamau Brathwaite calls a “nation language,” since it is a Caribbean-specific form of this language. Other writers that have written in non-standard forms of this language include Louise Bennett and James Whitcomb Riley.
Although Samuel Selvon is often considered the first author to publish a work in a “nation language,” Brathwaite attributes that feat to this much-earlier author. This author wrote the essay De vulgari eloquentia, and he pioneered a poetic form in which three-line stanzas are linked by rhymes in alternating lines.
The Lonely Londoners
English
Dante Alighieri  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
A woman from Aleppo named Maryam was named for her prowess at making these things. For 10 points each:
Name these items that were the subject of a treatise subtitled “bread and milk for children” and written in Middle English for its author's son, Lewis. They were centered on two plates called a rete and a mater.
Two answers required These two people had a child named Astrolabe after a love affair that ended in one of these people's uncle Fulbert castrating the other. Computer analysis has shown that a series of letters between these two people may have actually been written by one of them to himself.
This city's cathedral contains an early sculptural depiction of an astrolabe, and is located near a tower whose upper floors curve leftward in an unsuccessful attempt to rectify an incident of soil subsidence.
astrolabes [accept Maryam al-Astrulabi]
Peter Abelard and Heloise [accept Pierre for Peter]
Pisa &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
Regina begins an affair with her professor's wife Martha in a novel titled for this activity by Susan Choi. For 10 points each:
Name this activity. Malala Yousafzai's autobiography is subtitled “The Story of a Girl Who Stood Up for [this activity] and was Shot by the Taliban.”
This earlier author recounted the 1900 Paris Exposition in “The Dynamo and the Virgin,” a chapter of the third-person autobiography titled for his “Education.”
This author included the oft-excerpted chapter “Aria” in his autobiography Hunger of Memory, which is subtitled for his “Education.”
education
Henry Adams
Richard Rodriguez &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
<em>Two-part answer required</em> While doing this action with this person, one man received the threat “stop calling me a crypto-Nazi, or I'll sock you in the face”. For 10 points each:
Another man remarked that he was “in the position of a kind of Jeremiah” while promoting his position that “the American dream is at the expense of the American negro” at an event at Cambridge during which he did this thing with this person.
This rival of Buckley and author of Myra Breckenridge was the target of the first threat; this gay author aroused controversy by depicting a same-sex relationship in his The City and the Pillar.
By consensus, this black intellectual defeated Buckley in their Cambridge debate. This author of Notes of a Native Son and The Fire Next Time himself depicted a gay love affair in Giovanni's Room.
debating William F. Buckley, Jr. [accept synonyms of debate, prompt on partial answer with “with whom?” if “debating” is given and “what happened?” if only “Buckley” is given]
(Eugene Luther) Gore Vidal
James Baldwin &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
A line in which one of these characters “bar to” the other “a stif burdoun” may suggest that these two characters have a homosexual relationship. For 10 points each:
Name these two pilgrims, who ride together. One of them is “hot and lecherous” and has a face covered in pimples, while the other has “hair as yellow as wax” and cannot grow a beard.
The Summoner and the Pardoner are characters in this Middle English collection by Geoffrey Chaucer.
At the end of the Pardoner's Tale, this character tells him that he'll cut off his bollocks and enshrine them in a “hog's turd.” Earlier, this character interrupts Chaucer's Tale of Sir Topaz since his rhymes are “doggerel” and “purgatory.”
the Summoner and the Pardoner [accept Somnour or Somonour in place of “Summoner”]
The Canterbury Tales
the Host [or the Hoost, or accept either or both of Harry Bailly]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
In an obituary, Terry Castle recalled being invited by this writer to a dinner party where she was promptly ignored by all the other guests. For 10 points each:
Name this writer who, in that essay, repeatedly claimed her novel The Volcano Lover was misunderstood. She analyzed victim-blaming in talk about cancer and tuberculosis in an essay written while she was being treated for breast cancer.
Castle recalled Sontag's obsession with having produced this Samuel Beckett play during the siege of Sarajevo. Lucky delivers a single frantic monologue in this play, which centers on the non-doings of Vladimir and Estragon.
An essay from Castle's book The Apparitional Lesbian analyzes the potential attraction between the feminists Olive Chancellor and Verena Tarrant in this Henry James novel, which Castle deemed “the first 'lesbian novel' written in English.” The name of this novel may have inspired the name of a type of informal same-sex “marriage” between women.
Susan Sontag
Waiting for Godot [or En attendant Godot]
The Bostonians &lt;Literature American - Kothari&gt;
This author wrote about the librarian Sipho Makhaya in his play <em>Nothing but the Truth</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this actor and playwright. This member of the Serpent Players recounted being called a “terrorist” for playing Othello in Janet Suzman's 1987 production of that play in his essay “Apartheid and Othello.”
John Kani is an actor from this country. B. B. Mdledle, another author from this country, translated Julius Caesar into Xhosa.
South African playwright Welcome Msomi wrote uMabatha, a Zulu adaptation of this Shakespeare play. In uMabatha, three Sangoma replace a trio in this play that utter the phrase “fair is foul and foul is fair.”
John Kani
Republic of South Africa
Macbeth &lt;Literature Shakespeare - French&gt;
Legendarily, Richard Huelsenbeck chose the name for this movement by sliding a paper knife into a dictionary. For 10 points each:
Name this movement whose fouding adherents frequented the Cabaret Voltaire. Huelsenbeck selected a French colloquialism for “hobbyhorse” as the name for this anti-art movement.
This man co-founded the Cabaret Voltaire with Emmy Hennings and wrote the first manifesto for the Dada movement. He wrote “jolifanto bambla o falli bambla” to open his best-known piece, the sound poem “Karawane”.
Dadaist literature was heavily inspired by Alfred Jarry's plays starring this character. This character becomes a king in a Jarry play that begins with the nonsense word “Merdre!”
Dadaism
Hugo Ball
Ubu Roi [or Père Ubu; or Pa Ubu; Papa Ubu; or Father Ubu; or King Ubu; or Ubu Roi; or King Turd]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
The author described this set of poems as “the thin gleanings of a long weary while” to Robert Bridges. For 10 points each:
Name this set of poems which includes “No Worst, There is None,” “Thou art indeed just, Lord” and “Carrion Comfort.” These six poems express the religious doubts of the poet.
This author's last words were “I am so happy, I am so happy. I loved my life” despite the late-life depression that inspired his “terrible sonnets.” This possibly homosexual Jesuit wrote “Pied Beauty” in his trademark sprung rhythm.
This ode by Hopkins opens with an invocation to “Thou mastering me / God!” It is dedicated to five Franciscan nuns who drowned during the title event.
terrible sonnets [or the sonnets of desolation]
Gerard Manley Hopkins
“The Wreck of the Deutschland”  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In this play, Hansy Rilow <strong>(Ree-lov)</strong> compares himself to Othello and Bluebeard upon burning a pornographic book. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Frank Wedekind, subtitled “a children's tragedy,” in which Moritz commits suicide after getting bad grades and the atheist Melchior Gabor assaults the masochistic Wendla.
Wedekind's play was translated from the German in the 1970s by this British poet laureate, whose collection Birthday Letters contains several poems addressed to his deceased wife, Sylvia Plath.
Spring Awakening was also translated and modernized by this contemporary American novelist author of Purity and Freedom. This novelist attacked the experimental fiction of William Gaddis in his essay Mr. Difficult.
Spring Awakening [accept Fruhlings Erwachen or Spring's Awakening]
Ted Hughes
Jonathan Franzen &lt;Literature European - Myers&gt;
This collection opens with a poem whose speaker fails to find the right words for a poem to tell a woman he loves her, only to be told by his Muse, “Fool, look in thy heart, and write.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection whose dedicatee is believed to be Penelope Devereux. The speaker of another poem in this collection notes “With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!”
Astrophil and Stella was written by this Elizabethan poet of “The Defense of Poesy.” This man detailed the brief turmoil of Basilius' kingdom in The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia.
Sidney's “The Defense of Poesy” is not to be confused with this much later poet's essay “The Defense of Poetry.” Poems by this man include “Adonais” and “Ozymandias.”
Astrophil and Stella [or Astrophel and Stella]
Sir Philip Sidney
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - McCullar&gt;
In this story, the title character has a heart attack in his hotel room in Capri at the end of a world tour with his family. For 10 points each:
Name this story by Ivan Bunin in which the title character is “liberal with his money” while abroad but shockingly indifferent to the poverty around him.
“The Gentleman from San Francisco” contains an epigraph about this city. In The Iceman Cometh, Hugo periodically shouts “the days grow hot, O [this city], while an F. Scott Fitzgerald story is titled for this city “Revisited.”
This author depicted a post-apocalyptic America where “The Great Burning” left old houses as “dead places” in his story “By the Waters of Babylon”. This author also wrote the epic John Brown's Body.
“The Gentleman from San Francisco”
Babylon
Stephen Vincent Benet &lt;Literature American - Santanam&gt;
A characteristic example of these statements advises to “Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires.” For 10 points each:
Name these seventy statements, found between two “Memorable Fancies.” Another of them says that “The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.”
“Rintrah roars” in “The Argument” that opens this prose work, which is titled after the magnum opus of Emmanuel Swedenborg. The Proverbs of Hell are found in this prose work by William Blake.
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell claims that this poet was “in fetters when he wrote of Angels and God” because he was “of the Devil's party without knowing it.” In a Blakean epic named for him, this poet of Paradise Lost has a feminine “contrary” named Ololon.
Proverbs of Hell [prompt on proverbs]
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
John Milton &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
One poem by Phillip Larkin declares that “sexual intercourse began” between the end of the ban on this novel “and the Beatles' first LP”. For 10 points each:
Name this D. H. Lawrence novel about the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors' affair with the title noblewoman, which was the subject of a lengthy British obscenity trial against its publisher, Penguin.
Phillip Larkin was a member of a literary group called the Movement. This other Movement poet later wrote several elegies to his AIDS-afflicted friends, such as “The Man with Night Sweats.” His early collections include The Sense of Movement and Fighting Terms.
This Larkin poem, which laments “Man hands on misery to man,” was inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's Requiem. It warns “Get out as early as you can, / And don't have any kids yourself.”
Lady Chatterley's Lover
Thom Gunn
“This Be the Verse”  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In this play, Felix Hobain, who takes on the alias Makak, works as a charcoal burner in the title place. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the protagonist is imprisoned by Corporal Lestrade with Tigre and Souris and has a vision of a goddess that inspires him to drunkenly attack a cafe.
Dream on Monkey Mountain is a play by this Nobel laureate and author of the poem “A Far Cry from Africa” and the collection Sea Grapes. This author is most famous for an epic poem where fishermen meet at the No Pain Cafe.
In Dream on Monkey Mountain, the coffin-maker Basil hovers over the protagonist, Makak, during his trial. Basil is a figure from this religion, which was attacked in the novels of Jacques Roumain for its belief in loa.
Dream on Monkey Mountain
Derek Walcott
voodoo [accept vodou or vodun]  &lt;Literature World - Myers&gt;
In one poem, a person of this occupation named Basil has his face dramatically revealed when he takes off his “Spanish sombrero” after meeting the protagonist in Missouri. For 10 points each,
Name this occupation that Basil had in the village of Grand-Pre before becoming a sheep herder upon his expulsion. He helps guide the title character of an epic poem on her fruitless quest to find Gabriel Lajeunesse.
A smith in the same author's poem “The Village Blacksmith” works “under the spreading” one of these specific plants.
Both “The Village Blacksmith” and Evangeline were written by this American poet of The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere, which focuses on a silversmith rather than a blacksmith.
blacksmith
chestnut tree [prompt on tree; accept chestnut]
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
Juvenal's sixth satire claims that one cannot be happy while one of these people is still alive. For 10 points each:
Name these people, often the subject of jokes in Roman literature. In a play titled for one of these people named Sostrata, Philumena tries to avoid one of these people after having become pregnant after her rape by Pamphilus, though the two eventually get married in a not-too-happy ending.
Hecyra, or The Mother-in-Law, is a play by this Roman playwright of Andria and The Self-Tormentor. Of Berber descent, he grew up as a slave but was freed in his twenties on account of his intellect.
A less successful attempt to deal with children in awkward marital situations, in which the title character kills her and Jason's children, occurs in this Greek author's play Medea.
their mother-in-law [or clear equivalents; or hecyra]
Terence [or Publius Terentius Afer]
Euripides &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
The use of this technique spanning an octave over 100 notes on the last word inspired the name of the <em>Missa Caput</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which several notes are used to sing a syllable of text, common in Gregorian chant.
Melismas were used by this ethnoreligous group's Masorete scribes that wrote the rules for cantillation of its holy text. Abraham Idelsohn was the “father” of the modern musicology of this ethnic group, who are considered the inventors of klezmer music.
The Christian hymn “Angels We Have Heard on High” contains a melisma on the “o” in this Latin word. That song is based on a hymn that begins with this word, which follows the Kyrie to close the introductory rites.
melisma [or forms like melismatic]
Jews [accept Ashkenazi Jews]
Gloria [in excelsis Deo]  &lt;Arts Music - Smith&gt;
This author wrote “those who learned to know our names... / those... will not return!” in his poem “The Black Swallows Will Return.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet. Rosario Castellanos refuted this author's poem “Rima 21,” in which he tells his lover, “Poetry... is you.”
Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer was a Spanish proponent of this broad literary movement. English proponents of this movement include Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth.
Another pioneer of Spanish-language Romanticism was José María Heredia, who was from this country. A later poet from this country wrote the essay Our America as well as the poem “I Cultivate a White Rose.”
Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer
Romanticism [or Romanticismo]
Cuba &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
In this novel, Nathan Zuckerman decides that the phrase “Everyone knows” is the “beginning of the banalization of experience” when he sees a disgraced college professor and his mistress at an orchestra rehearsal. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. Classics professor Coleman Silk reveals to Nathan Zuckerman that he has been hiding his black identity after he is fired from Athena College for allegedly using a racial slur in this novel.
This author was inspired by the experiences of Yale professor Melvin Tumin to create the character of Coleman Silk. This man also wrote American Pastoral and Goodbye, Columbus.
In this novel by a different author, the title professor at Waindell College laments “I haf nofing” after a visit from his ex-wife. That professor quits his job after the narrator is named head of Waindell's Russian department.
The Human Stain
Philip Milton Roth
Pnin &lt;Literature American - Husar&gt;
A man is delivered room service by the beautiful made Camae, who is revealed to be an angel, in a play titled for this location by Katori Hall. For 10 points each:
Name this location. A quote about this allegorical location titles a speech that its speaker concluded with the quote “Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the lord!”
The speech “I've Been to the Mountaintop” was given by this civil rights activist, who also delivered the “I Have a Dream” speech.
This poet asked “What can I, a poor Black woman, do to destroy America?” in a poem written in response to the assassination of Martin Luther King. This author of “Knoxville, Tennessee” delivered a memorial chant-poem shortly after the shooting at Virginia Tech, where she is a faculty member.
the Mountaintop [accept “I've Been to the Mountaintop”]
Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]
Nikki Giovanni &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
Economists from this country have used the price of a cheese-filled flatbread called <em>khachapuri</em> <strong>(HAH-chah-poo-ree)</strong> as an index of inflation. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose other distinctive foods include a tart plum-based sauce, tkemali. Toastmasters called tamadas direct feasts called supras in this country.
The Georgian candy churchkhela is made by dipping strings of walnuts into the thickened juice of this fruit, often from the Kakheti region. Varieties of this fruit like Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot are widely grown in Bordeaux, France.
Grapes infected with noble rot are used to produce the sweet Tokaji (toh-kye-yee) wines produced in this European country and neighboring Slovakia.
Georgia
grapes
Hungary &lt;Geography Europe - Kothari&gt;
This character dedicates a song opening “Let schoolmasters puzzle their brain / With grammar, and nonsense, and learning” to the Three Pigeons alehouse. For 10 points each:
Name this character who tricks Charles Marlow and his friend Hastings into believing that his family's manor is an inn, setting the plot of the play in which he appears into motion.
Tony Lumpkin is a relative of Kate Hardcastle, who pretends to be a barmaid to seduce Marlow in this Laughing Comedy, which contains a prologue by David Garrick attacking popular sentimental comedies.
She Stoops to Conquer is the most famous play of this Anglo-Irish author of “A Haunch of Venison” and The Vicar of Wakefield.
Tony Lumpkin [accept either]
She Stoops to Conquer [or Mistakes of a Night]
Oliver Goldsmith &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
Felix Morisseau-Leroy had characters call upon <em>loa</em> in his adaptation of this play written in Haitian Creole. For 10 points each:
Name this play. In another adaptation of this play, the title character tells her Nurse to never scold her dog Puff again.
This French playwright of The Lark and Traveller without Luggage used Creon as a stand-in for the Vichy government in his 1943 adaptation of Antigone.
The original Antigone is a play by this Ancient Greek author of Oedipus Rex.
Antigone
Jean Anouilh
Sophocles &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
This poet wrote “perhaps the great error is believing we're alone” in a poem whose title was inspired by <em>2001: A Space Odyssey</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “My God, It's Full of Stars.” This poet's collection Life on Mars also includes a poem that discusses the killing of Canada Geese outside of JFK Airport entitled “Solstice.”
As of June 2019, Tracy K. Smith was the current holder of this United States position appointed by the Library of Congress. Former holders of this position such as Gwendolyn Brooks and Billy Collins frequently instituted programs to foster interest in poetry among the population.
Smith cited this man's poem “Digging” as the poem that “invited” her “to start writing poetry.” In another poem, this man described the “great slime kings” who were “gathered there for vengeance.”
Tracy K. Smith
Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress [accept answers related to being the Poet Laureate of the US, prompt on “Consultant in Poetry”],
Seamus Justin Heaney &lt;Literature American - Husar&gt;
The protagonist of this novel is criticized by his West Indian coworker for his decision to grow a beard and moves back home after his lover Erica dies. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the Princeton graduate and former consultant Changez may be assassinated by a CIA agent after giving a viral anti-American speech.
The author of The Reluctant Fundamentalist, Mohsin Hamid, is from this country. In a novel by another author, Iskander Harappa and General Raza Hyder are politicians who rule an allegorical version of this country.
This author's novel Shame is a political satire set in Pakistan. In another novel by this author, Saleem Sinai and other children born on India's independence day have supernatural powers.
The Reluctant Fundamentalist
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Salman Rushdie &lt;Literature World - Myers&gt;
A novel by this author opens with the protagonist killing several lizards between his house and his neighbour's; when his neighbour Roberto disapproves, he tries to kill him with a slingshot, but instead kills his cat. For ten points each:
For ten points, name this novelist who discussed Marcello's attempts to live a normal life under a Fascist regime in that work, The Conformist. This novelist's other works include The Indifferents and Contempt.
The Conformist is set under the wartime regime of this European country. Luigi Pirandello had his Nobel Prize medal melted down for this country's military to use in weapons.
The Italian dictatorship's anti-Semitic policies gave this author difficulty in finding an advisor for his thesis, as described in his memoir The Periodic Table. This author narrated his experiences in Auschwitz in If This Is A Man.
Alberto Moravia
Italy [or Italia]
Primo Levi &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
A line in Edward Fitzgerald's “translation” of the Rubaiyat that states “Before we too into [this substance] descend” may have actually been based on a line from Genesis. For 10 points each:
Name this substance. A line from The Wasteland begins “I will show you fear” and then states a phrase about this substance.
This author used a line from Eliot to title his novel A Handful of Dust. He also wrote Brideshead Revisited.
Eliot cites his reference to a “handful of dust” as originating from a Tennyson poem named for a girl with this first name. Another poem titled after a woman with this first name includes the lines “for all sad words of tongue and pen/ the saddest are these: “it might have been”“
dust [accept “Before we too into dust descend” or “in a handful of dust”]
Evelyn Waugh
Maud [accept ”Maud Muller]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
Answer the following about geography in early modern English drama. For 10 points each:
The 1924 essay Marlowe's Map demonstrated that this play was informed by careful research in the geographic writings of Abraham Ortelius. Those locations include Damascus, Zanzibar, and Persepolis, which the title character sacks after Cosroe betrays his brother, Mycetes.
In contrast to Marlowe's scrupulous fact-checking, Shakespeare set this play on the non-existent “coast of Bohemia”. This play contains the famous stage direction “exit, pursued by a bear”.
The reputation of the London district in which it is set contributed to the hilarity of this author's play A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. This author of the Revenger's Tragedy also may have co-written Timon of Athens with Shakespeare.
Tamburlaine
The Winter's Tale
Thomas Middleton &lt;Literature Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
This poet noted that “it's in [time's] nature not to stay” since “today is always gone tomorrow” in her poem “Nothing Twice.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote that “after every war, someone has to clean up” in her poem “The End and the Beginning”. This author's poem “Love at First Sight” ends with the affirmation that “every beginning is only a sequel, after all, and the book of events is always open halfway through.”
Szymborska won the Nobel Prize in part for a poem from the perspective of one of these animals wandering around an empty apartment. Another poet published a volume titled for Old Possum's Book of Practical these animals.
This fellow Pole who authored an essay on Szymborska notes that people who expect “lightning and thunder” will be disappointed in his poem “A Song on the End of the World.” This author described people such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta in his work The Captive Mind.
Wisława Szymborska (Vi-swa-va Shim-bor-ska) [or Maria Wisława Anna Szymborska-Włodek]
cats
Czesław Miłosz (chess-swaf mi-woshe) &lt;Literature European - McCullar&gt;
The display of this book inside a model prison cell during the 1982 iteration of the American Booksellers Association convention inspired Banned Books Week. For 10 points each:
Name this 1969 book, the first in a seven-part autobiographical series written by Maya Angelou, in which the Angelou describes growing up in segregated Stamps, Arkansas and being sexually assaulted by her mother's boyfriend, Mr. Freeman.
The book is titled for the last line of this poem by Paul Laurence Dunbar, in which a caged bird flings “a prayer that he sends from his heart's deep core” to heaven.
During a performance of this song at her eighth grade graduation, Angelou realized that she was “no longer a member of the proud graduating class” but “a member of the proud, graduating, negro race.” This song instructs the listeners to perform a title action “Till earth and heaven ring, / Ring with the harmonies of Liberty.”
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
“Sympathy”
“Lift Ev'ry Voice and Sing” [or the “Black National Anthem”] (by James Weldon Johnson)  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
A character in this play suggests that if Orwell were to arrive in his time, he would be part of the National Front. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Hector and Irwin mentor a group of schoolboys in preparation for their examinations. Hector is almost fired for groping his students on motorbike rides, but cripples Irwin in a motorbike accident at this play's end.
Irwin suggests that this person may have put their head through the window instead of knocking at Coleridge's door. Stevie Smith suggested that Coleridge “was already stuck / With Kubla Khan” before receiving this person whom Coleridge blamed for his non-completion of that poem.
After losing his job, Irwin works as a presenter in this non-radio medium, in which performances of plays starring Kenneth Branagh were frequently broadcast by the BBC.
The History Boys (by Alan Bennett)
the person from Porlock [accept any answers mentioning someone from Porlock; accept “Thoughts about the Person from Porlock”]
television [accept TV]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Shanmugam&gt;
Antonio Gramsci observed that this character's reliance on deduction and introspection allows him to “totally defeat” a Protestant, whom Gramsci compared to a “pretentious little boy.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who convinces Flambeau to give up crime and become a detective. He first appears in “The Blue Cross,” a story in which this character helps Valentin arrest Flambeau.
This creator of Father Brown dedicated The Napoleon of Notting Hill to Hillaire Belloc. George Bernard Shaw combined this author's name with that of Belloc due to their similar conservative views.
Chesterton is also known as an apologist for this Christian denomination. John Henry Newman's conversion from Anglicanism to this branch of Christianity, after which he assumed the title of Cardinal, was explained in his Apologia Pro Vita Sua.
Father Brown
G.K. (Gilbert Keith) Chesterton [accept Chesterbelloc]
Roman Catholicism  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In one short story by this author, Vera dates a foreign man named Rad who eventually plants explosives in her luggage in order to blow up a plane. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose first work was the short story collection Face To Face. In addition to short stories including “Some are Born to Sweet Delight”, this author wrote a short novel in which Maureen Smales refuses to finish reading a copy of Manzoni's The Betrothed.
In this Gordimer short story from the collection A Soldier's Embrace, the village of Dilolo is burned after its chief reveals that it is harboring guerrillas during the Rhodesian Bush War.
In Gordimer's short story “The Life of the Imagination”, the narrator is anxious that black men will kill her due to anger over this set of policies, which Gordimer agitated against as part of the African National Congress.
Nadine Gordimer
“Oral History”
apartheid &lt;Literature World - Myers&gt;
James Merrill asked “Where's the slush of [this word]” in his poem “Snow Jobs,” which is a parody of the poem in which this word originates. For 10 points each:
Name this word, which Dante Rossetti coined to translate the refrain of a poem by François Villon.
“But where are the snows of yesteryear?” is repeated at the end of each stanza of Villon's poem, since it is a poem in this form. Along with the rondeau and the virelai, this is one of the three form fixes commonly set to music in medieval France.
Villon listed “Heloise” and “Joan [of Arc]” in his “Ballade of [these people] of Time Gone By.” Christine de Pizan wrote a book set in the “City of [these people]” which discusses historical examples of them such as Theodora and Blanche of Castile.
yesteryear
ballade (ball-ODD) [do not accept “ballad,” ask the player to spell it out if necessary]
ladies [or dames, or women]  &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
This novel's contentious last section is usually published under either the title “Into the Millennium” or “The Criminals” and involves the protagonist's incest with his sister Agathe. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. Its protagonist is an indifferent mathematician who, having given up civil engineering, takes a year out from his normal life to try and find 'an appropriate application for his abilities', eventually helping to organise a 70-year jubilee.
The author of The Man without Qualities, Robert Musil, wrote a memorial speech for this other author, who wrote that “beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror” in a work written while staying with Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis.
Musil was an author from this modern-day country, which he refers to as “Kakania” in The Man Without Qualities. Another author from this modern-day country, Joseph Roth, wrote the historical novel Radetzky March.
The Man without Qualities [or Der Mann ohne Eigenschaften]
Rainer Maria Rilke
Austria &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
In a profile of Jeremy Bentham, this writer quipped “His works have been translated into French.They ought to be translated into English.” For 10 points each:
Name this essayist who profiled twenty-five influential figures of the early 19th century in The Spirit of the Age. Essays “On Effeminacy of Character” and “On the Pleasure of Painting” appear in his Table-Talk.
Hazlitt was close friends with this other author, who wrote of Bo-bo's invention of the art of broiling in one of the essays he wrote under the pseudonym “Elia”. This author collaborated with his matricidal sister Mary on Tales from Shakespeare.
This is the first play adapted in the Lambs' Tales from Shakespeare. When reviewing Coleridge's lecture on this play, Hazlitt disputed the former's assessment of Caliban as a “Jacobin” usurper of Prospero.
William Hazlitt
Charles Lamb
The Tempest &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
In a chapter told in the second-person, the alcoholic Thomas Frank gets fired from the Indian Center in this city after crushing a bat to death with his bare hands. For 10 points each:
Name this city, where many characters converge at a powwow that falls victim to a botched robbery in Tommy Orange's There There. That novel's title was inspired by a Gertrude Stein quotation about this city that “There is no there there.”
A square in Oakland is named after Jack London, who wrote this novel about the sled dog Buck and his many owners, who include the outdoorsman John Thornton.
This writer's novel Telegraph Avenue is also mainly set in Oakland and nearby Berkeley. In another novel, this writer imagined an alternate history in which Sitka, Alaska became a large, Yiddish-speaking metropolis.
Oakland, California
The Call of the Wild
Michael Chabon &lt;Literature American - Kothari&gt;
The first novel to be published in the language of this people is framed a hunter telling stories of his exploits in the title <em>Forest of a Thousand Daemons</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group. A writer from this ethnic group described a man who travels to Dead’s Town to retrieve his deceased tapster.
Amos Tutuola drew on Yoruba folklore for his novel titled for a “drinkard” of this substance. In Things Fall Apart, Unoka is considered lazy in part because he consumes too much of this substance.
Forest of a Thousand Daemons was translated into English by this Yoruba playwright of Death and the King's Horseman.
Yoruba people [Forest of a Thousand Daemons is by D.O. Fagunwa.]
palm wine [prompt on wine or alcohol]
Wole Soyinka &lt;Literature World - French&gt;
The New Age metaphor of the “red road” was borrowed from this speaker. For 10 points each:
Name this Lakota medicine man. His son Ben acted as mediator between him and John G. Neihardt, who used those conversations as the basis for a book titled [this man] Speaks.
Black Elk lamented “A people's dream died there. It was a beautiful dream” when recalling an event in this location. Stephen Vincent Benet's “American Names” ends with the plea to “bury my heart” at this location, the site of an 1890 massacre of more than 150 Lakota.
Kenneth Lincoln's Native American Renaissance compares Black Elk to this Kiowa author, whose Pulitzer-winning novel House Made of Dawn is considered the starting point for that Renaissance.
Black Elk
Wounded Knee Creek [accept Wounded Knee Massacre]
N. Scott Momaday [or Navarre Scott Momaday]  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
In one novel from this country, the narrator talks to a woman named Zwida and meets an observatory worker named Kauderer in a cemetery. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose poet, Ukko Ahti, wrote Leaning from the Steep Slope in its native Bothno-Ugaric language according to a professor who argues with Galligani on the topic.
You, the reader, fall in love with Ludmila after meeting her at a bookstore and pursuing a convoluted trail of books, one of which is from Cimmeria, in this novel. This novel alternates between second-person narratives and excerpts with titles like “Outside the Town of Malbork” and “Leaning from the Steep Slope.”
If on a Winter's Night a Traveler is a novel by this Italian author of The Cloven Viscount, Invisible Cities, and Cosmicomics.
Cimmeria
If on a Winter's Night a Traveller [or Se una notte d'inverno un viaggiatore]
Italo Calvino &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
A group called YALL sang Florence Reece's song “Which Side Are You On?” at a 2018 academic conference to protest a book titled after these people. For 10 points each:
Identify this pejorative label. A 2016 memoir by J. D. Vance about his family's experiences in southern Ohio is titled as an “elegy” for them.
Hillbilly Elegy is ostensibly about the values of people living in this mountainous American cultural region. Horace Kephart's Our Southern Highlanders was one of the first cultural studies of this region.
Students at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School interviewed people like Aunt Arie to catalogue Appalachian folkways and crafts in a magazine titled for this phenomenon, which refers to a kind of glow produced by fungi.
hillbillies [accept Hillbilly Elegy]
Appalachian Mountains
foxfire &lt;Geography US - Kothari&gt;
In her autobiography <em>A Backward Glance</em>, the author of this novel questioned what “deeper bearing” this novel's “society of irresponsible pleasure-seekers” could be said to have. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Lily Bart's long fall from grace begins after she fails to secure an engagement to Percy Gryce.
In The House of Mirth, Percy's interest in Lily ends after she snubs him to spend an afternoon with this man. This man realizes that “the conditions of life had conspired to keep them apart” when Lily overdoses on sleeping medicine right before this man planned to propose.
This author used a line from Ecclesiastes about “the heart of fools” for the title of The House of Mirth. She also wrote The Age of Innocence.
The House of Mirth
Lawrence Selden [accept either underlined portion]
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]  &lt;Literature American - Husar&gt;
One character with this surname remarks that it “is not a pretty one, and it takes a long time to sign” when introducing himself to Mr. Pinch. For 10 points each:
Give this surname. Jonas, another character with this surname, murders the petty thief Montague Tigg.
“Chuzzlewit” was one of the many ridiculous surnames coined by Charles Dickens. Perhaps the most famous Dickensian name is this surname of Ebenezer, which has become synonymous with “miser.”
Nathaniel Winkle, Augustus Snodgrass, and Tracy Tupman are among the members of a “club” named for this other Dickensian surname. Samuel, the founder of that club, appears in Dickens' first novel, which is about his namesake “Papers.”
Chuzzlewit
Scrooge
Pickwick &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
This author borrowed an Ibsen title for her essay “When We Dead Awaken: Writing as Re-Vision,” which discusses the writing of “Aunt Jennifer's Tigers.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who compared herself to both “the mermaid whose dark hair / streams black” and “the merman in his armored body” in her “Diving Into the Wreck” and wrote a “Floating Poem” to accompany the title Twenty One Love Poems in another collection.
Rich wrote an essay that claims this orientation is treated as “compulsory” in Western society. Deviations from this orientation are studied in queer theory.
Rich's “Twenty One Love Poems” were inspired in part by her relationship with this Jamaican woman author of Abeng and No Telephone to Heaven.
Adrienne Rich
compulsory heterosexuality [accept heteronormative and word forms; accept straight]
Michelle Carla Cliff &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
One member of this family carries on a lesbian affair with her swimming teacher Winifred Inger before rekindling a disappointed romance with Anton Skrebensky. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of sisters Ursula and Gudrun, who feature in the novels The Rainbow and Women in Love.
Those novels are by this writer of Sons and Lovers, who included nature-themed poems like “Snake” in his collection Birds, Beasts, and Flowers.
The spinsters Nellie March and Jill Banford try to kill one of these animals in a Lawrence novella. Silvia Tebrick suddenly turns into one of these wild animals in a David Garnett novel.
Brangwen
D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]
foxes  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Kothari&gt;
Among this country's literary tradition is <em>skaz</em>, a form in which the narration of a story imitates spontaneous oral storytelling and uses the idioms and dialect of a certain character in order to imitate that character's persona. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Authors from this country such as Leo Tolstoy and Nikolai Gogol employed skaz in their shorter works.
This story employs skaz to imitate the idiosyncrasies of Pahom, who declares that “if [he] had enough land, [he] shouldn't fear the devil himself.” This story ends when Pahom collapses and dies after trying to claim land from the Bashkirs.
This other Russian author frequently employed skaz in works such as “The Steel Flea” and Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.
Russia [or Rossiya]
How Much Land Does a Man Need? [or How Much Land Does a Man Require? or Mnogo li cheloveku zemli nuzhno?]
Nikolai Semyonovich Leskov [or M. Stebnitsky]  &lt;Literature European - Husar&gt;
This question could be answered with “at least one” based on the line “I have given suck and know/ how tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me” or “none” based on another character crying “he has no children” after his son is killed. For 10 points each:
Name this question that titles an L. C. Knights essay in which he attacks prior critics for reifying Shakespeare's characters independently of their texts.
This author of Confessions of an English Opium Eater wrote another important essay on Macbeth, which focuses on the knocking at the gate heard by a porter after the death of Duncan.
In another essay, this author described Macbeth as taking place in a Platonic state of suspended time and space. This author of The Western Canon avoided discussing Shakespeare entirely in the first edition of his The Anxiety of Influence.
How Many Children Had Lady Macbeth? [accept different wordings of the question such as ”How many children did Lady Macbeth have?”]
Thomas De Quincey [prompt on Quincey]
Harold Bloom &lt;Literature Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
Kurt Vonnegut's novel <em>Galápagos</em> puts one of these things before a character's name whenever that character is going to die soon. For 10 points each:
Name these things. In the preface to Breakfast of Champions, Vonnegut highlights his immaturity by including a drawing of one of these things, which he claims is a picture of an anus.
Somewhat more maturely, this other Vonnegut novel includes a drawing of a tombstone with the epitaph “Everything was beautiful, and nothing hurt,” which Billy Pilgrim thinks up when asked about World War II by his wife Valencia.
Slaughterhouse-Five also includes a drawing of a heart-shaped locket engraved with the Serenity Prayer, which belongs to this woman. This actress is abducted by the Tralfamadorians along with Billy Pilgrim.
asterisk [or star]
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
Montana Wildhack [accept either underlined name]  &lt;Literature American - Morrison&gt;
A scene in <em>Crime and Punishment</em> in which Raskolnikov tries to stop the flogging of a horse bears a striking resemblance to a common anecdote about this thinker in Turin. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker, whose relationship to Dostoevsky is the subject of a book-length study by Lev Shestov. Crime and Punishment is frequently read in contrast to the idea of the ubermensch presented in his book Thus Spake Zarathustra.
Note to players: Description acceptable Time in the philosophical circle of Vissarion Belinsky inspired this Dostoevsky character, who objects to Nikolai Chernyshevsky's “Crystal Palace” metaphor. This man also rails against the unchangeable reality of the equation “2 plus 2 equals 4.”
Belinsky appears in Voyage and Shipwreck, two parts of this 2002 trilogy of plays whose principal characters are Russian thinkers such as Mikhail Bakunin and Alexander Herzen.
Frederich Nietzsche
the Underground Man [or descriptions such as the narrator / protagonist of Notes from Underground / Notes from the Underground / Letters from the Underworld]
The Coast of Utopia (by Tom Stoppard)  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
A couple is told that their daughter has been killed by a drunk driver, but they are relieved to find out that the body is actually that of her friend in this author's story “Chicxulub.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. Both men agree not to call an ambulance when Delaney injures Cándido while driving his car in this author's novel The Tortilla Curtain.
Mel tells Nick and Laura about an elderly couple hit by a drunken teenager in this short story. In this story, Terri claims that her abusive ex-boyfriend Ed really did love her while sharing a bottle of gin with friends.
T. C. Boyle's “Chicxulub” and Raymond Carver's “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” were both originally published in this magazine. This Manhattan-based magazine also published Shirley Jackson's “The Lottery” and employed James Thurber.
T. C. Boyle [or Thomas Coraghessan Boyle]
“What We Talk About When We Talk About Love”
The New Yorker &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
In one play by this author, Waitwell pretends to be Sir Rowland and, on Mirabell's command, tries to trick Lady Wishfort into a false engagement. For 10 points,
Name this author who created the sayings “hell hath no fury like a woman scorned” and “kiss and tell” in plays like The Way of the World.
The Way of the World was a play from this period which had no rules governing its morality. Comedies in this period were also known as comedies of manners and this period saw the first professional female playwright, Aphra Behn.
This 1676 Restoration comedy by Sir George Etheredge subtitled Sir Fopling Flutter follows Dormiant extricating himself from his affair with Mrs. Loveit to marry Harriett.
William Congreve
Restoration [accept Restoration comedies]
The Man of Mode &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Santanam&gt;
In one story, this character nails a deuce of clubs to a tree above the epitaph, “he hit a streak of bad luck and handed in his checks”. For 10 points each:
Name this character who saves “the Innocent” from gambling debts before being kicked out of a gold camp. In another story, he is described as having “the melancholy air and intellectual abstraction of a Hamlet” while playing cards in a room where a woman dies while giving birth, leaving the room's denizens to raise the child.
Both of those stories were written by this author, who published them and his anti-Chinese satirical poem “Plain Language from Truthful James” in the Overland Monthly.
Almost all of Bret Harte's works, including “The Luck of Roaring Camp” and “The Outcasts of Poker Flat”, were set in this state, in which the Overland Monthly was published. While living in this state, John Muir also contributed to the Monthly.
John Oakhurst
Bret Harte
California &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
“Poems for” this person, including W.S. Merwin's “The Fence,” make up the anthology <em>Blood &amp; Tears</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this man. Fred Phelps and followers picket this man's funeral in a verbatim theater piece by the Tectonic Theater Project's Moises Kaufman.
In the Tectonic Theater Project's The Laramie Project, Jedidiah Schulz decides to perform a monologue from this play despite his parent's disapproval. Louis Ironson learns of his lover Prior Walter's AIDS diagnosis near the beginning of this Tony Kushner play.
This Annie Proulx story, also set in Wyoming, was published a year before the murder of Matthew Shepard. In this story, Jack Twist and Ennis del Mar have a homosexual affair while working as cowboys.
Matthew Shepard [prompt on Matt; prompt on Matthew]
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
“Brokeback Mountain”  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
Critic Charles Augstin Sainte-Beuve's early infatuation with this author morphed into an infatuation and affair with his wife Adele Foucher. For 10 points each:
Name this author. Sainte-Beuve's diary contains a remark that the popularity of this author's Les Misérables was “proof that the public's taste was really sick.”
Sainte-Beuve was silent on this Hugo novel, whose memorable scenes include a fight between Gilliatt and an octopus. It is dedicated to the island of Guernsey on which it was written.
Sainte-Beuve asserted that works in this category are written in “a style new without neologism” that is “easily contemporary with all time” in an essay arguing for a new definition. Italo Calvino said that a book in this category will “never exhaust all it has to say” in one of fourteen definitions written to answer the question: Why read [these works]?
Victor Hugo
The Toilers of the Sea [or Les Travailleurs de la mer]
classics [or classic works]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
This long prose poem takes its epigraphs from and has its structure modeled on the medieval epic <em>Y Gododdin</em>, in which the warriors of a Welsh kingdom have a massive feast and subsequently die in battle. For 10 points each,
Name this poem about David Jones' experiences in World War I, in which Private John Ball sees much of his regiment die at Mametz Wood.
This Middle Welsh prose collection was first published in full by Lady Charlotte Guest. This collection is the main source of myths about the legendary figures Pwyll, Pryderi, and Taliesin.
This author discussed medieval Welsh literature in his lecture “English and Welsh,” which was included in The Monsters and the Critics. He borrowed the title of the Welsh Red Book of Hergest for the fictional Red Book of Westmarch, which was written by hobbits.
In Parenthesis
Mabinogion [accept Four Branches of the Mabinogi]
J. R. R. Tolkien &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
In this novel, a teacher on his deathbed tells another teacher that “It doesn't matter anymore. Just do the best you can. But it won't matter.” For 10 points each:
Name this Ernest J. Gaines novel in which Aunt Lou asks the schoolteacher Grant Wiggins to change Jefferson Henry from a “hog” to a “man” before Jefferson's execution by electric chair.
Ernest J. Gaines presented the story of Miss Jane Pittman as this type of book. A book of this type named for Malcolm X was compiled by the journalist Alex Haley.
A Lesson Before Dying and The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman are both set in this US state. Dave Eggers set his novel Zeitoun in the aftermath of an event in this state.
A Lesson Before Dying
autobiography [prompt on memoir; prompt on biography]
Louisiana &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
A boy living in this city shares with the protagonist part of his science-fiction novel, in which the ghost of a man's dead friend appears on a television screen and tells him to avenge his murder. For 10 points each:
Name this city, in which a man is murdered in the corner of a pastry shop following a conversation that is recounted in the chapter “I Hope I'm Not Taking Too Much of Your Time?”
The poet Ka investigates a suicide epidemic among religious girls in Kars in this author's novel Snow. This Turkish Nobel laureate also wrote the novels The Museum of Innocence and My Name Is Red.
To illustrate the dangers of Western influence, the terrorist Blue tells Ka that this work has largely been forgotten in Turkey and relates a story from this work in which a father unknowingly kills his son, Sohrab, who has become a hero in the enemy army.
Kars, Turkey
Orhan Pamuk
Shahnameh [or Shahnama; or Shehname; or The Book of Kings]  &lt;Literature World - Morrison&gt;
A worker at a company depicted in this novel boasts that their white paint is so white “you can paint a chunka coal and you'd have to crack it open with a sledgehammer to prove it wasn't white clear through.” For 10 points each:
This novel's Liberty Paints boasts that its paint will “keep America pure”. The narrator of this novel by Ralph Ellison gets a job at Liberty after receiving a letter of recommendation from Doctor Bledsoe that makes him unhirable.
This author worked at a paint company before faking a psychotic episode in order to quit and become a writer. This author is most famous for a work in which George Willard, a journalist in the title town, interviews “grotesques” like Wing Biddlebaum and Doctor Reefy.
In another novel, this character finds a massive deposit of mineral paint under his Vermont farm, leading him to found a company he names for his wife, Persis, and try to integrate his daughters into Boston high society.
Invisible Man
Sherwood Anderson
Silas Lapham &lt;Literature American - Husar&gt;
Six poems from the contentious third volume of poetry traditionally ascribed to this author are now believed to have been written by Sulpicia, making them a rare example of surviving poetry from the ancient world written by a woman. For 10 points each:
Name this poet. Their works include an early homosexual cycle addressed to the young Marathus, though their best-known poems are addressed to the lower-class Delia and the higher-class Nemesis.
This person was also the addressee of many Roman poems, including one beginning 'Odi et amo', or 'I hate and I love [you]'. Another poem by the same author describes how this woman's pet sparrow has died.
This author of many love poems to Lesbia also threatened to 'sodomise' the critics Furius and Aurelius in another of his poems. His 64th poem is an epyllion ostensibly about the marriage of Peleus and Thetis.
Albius Tibullus
Lesbia [accept Clodia Pulchra]
Gaius Valerius Catullus &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
Six children with “torturing faces with the vacancy of wide sunflowers” taunt a boy who claims to be afraid of the dark in this story. For 10 points each:
Name this story that ends when a chandelier is lit and it is discovered that a boy has died of fear when his twin brother touched his face during a game of hide-and-seek in the dark.
This author of “The End of the Party” wrote about the Wormsley Common Gang destroying an old house in his short story “The Destructors.” This author wrote a novel set in the same city about the love between Maurice Bendix and Sarah Miles in World War II-era London.
Greene also wrote a short story titled for the “invisible gentlemen” from this country, short stories from which include “In a Grove” and “Hell Screen”, which were written by the namesake of a prize for fiction from this country, Ryanosuke Akutagawa.
“The End of the Party”
Graham Greene
Empire of Japan [accept Nippon]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Shanmugam&gt;
In this novel, Inger serves a prison sentence for killing her child after he was born with a hairlip. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the struggles of the peasant farmer Isak, who builds a prosperous farm with the help of Lensmand Geissler. This novel won its author the 1920 Nobel Prize in literature.
The author of Growth of the Soil and Hunger, Knut Hamsun, is from this country. The setting of Hunger, Christiania, is the old term for this country's capital city of Oslo.
In 1945, Knut Hamsun was arrested for treason in part for his publication of an obituary of this man that called him “a warrior for humankind and a preacher of the gospel of justice for all nations.” Another Norwegian author, Karl-Orve Knausgaard, wrote a six-volume autobiography named after a work by this man.
Growth of the Soil
Norway
Adolf Hitler &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
This author inserted the word “tra-la” at varying places to upset the rhythm of his poem “The Taxis.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. Another poem by this author states “It's no go the Yogi-Man, it's no go Blavatsky / All we want is a bank balance and a bit of skirt in a taxi.”
MacNeice collaborated with this other poet on their travel book Letters from Iceland. This poet wrote “we must love one another or die” in his poem “September 1, 1939.”
Auden wrote “The stars are dead. The animals will not look” near the end of a poem about this event. Pablo Neruda wrote “Come and see the blood in the streets” in “I Explain a Few Things,” which is also about this event.
Louis MacNeice
Wystan Hugh Auden
Spanish Civil War &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
The speaker of this poem describes a “common farmer” he knew who was “the father of five sons, and in them the fathers of sons, and in them the fathers of sons.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, whose fifth section is a discussion of the female form. The speaker of this poem claims that “the armies of those I love engirth me, and I engirth them.”
“I Sing the Body Electric” remained untitled until the title line was added in the 1867 republication of this collection, the most famous work of Walt Whitman.
The ninth section of “I Sing the Body Electric” catalogues various parts and sensations of the body before declaring, in the poem's final line, that they are this thing. In the second stanza of “Song of Myself,” the speaker claims to “loafe and invite” this thing.
“I Sing the Body Electric”
Leaves of Grass
the soul &lt;Literature American - Morrison&gt;
This novel's Darlington Hall is the site of failed appeasement talks before World War II where the American Senator Lewis calls Lord Darlington an “amateur” in politics. For 10 points,
Name this novel where the narrator, Stevens, sets out in his employer's automobile to visit a former crush, Mrs. Benn, in Cornwall after receiving a letter from her.
The narrator Stevens works in this profession in Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day. Another character with this profession named Jeeves was created by P.G. Wodehouse.
In Wodehouse's stories, Jeeves belongs to this club where all members must record the foibles of their employers to forewarn other butlers and valets.
The Remains of the Day
butler [accept valet, prompt on servant]
Junior Ganymede Club  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Santanam&gt;
In one novel about people of this ethnicity, the siblings Mozasu and Noa run the title gaming establishments and the central family emigrates after a local crime boss conceives Noa during an extramarital affair. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnicity of Takao, the hero of Outcries, as well as of the inhabitants of a settlement that S dies attacking, who include a shopkeeper whose supermarket is looted by a band of soccer-playing youth.
The grocery store-owning Emperor appears in this novel in which Takashi shoots himself and the Emperor destroys Mitsusaburo's shop before he leaves on a wildlife expedition to Africa.
The Silent Cry and Outcries were written by this Japanese Nobel laureate who also wrote novels including A Personal Matter and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids.
Korean-Japanese [accept Chōsenjin, Hanminjok]
The Silent Cry [accept Man'en Gannen no Futtoboru, Football on the First Day of Man'en]
Kenzaburō Ōe &lt;Literature World - Myers&gt;
A novel from this modern-day country written 20 years before <em>Animal Farm</em> depicts farm animals overthrowing the farmers to introduce 'equality', only for the revolt to degenerate into terror. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country, whose first Nobel Laureate wrote a four-volume epic novel titled Peasants. That author was part of decadent movement named “Young [this country]”.
The author of Peasants, Wladyslaw Reymont, also wrote a sceptically-received late novel titled for one of these creatures. One of these creatures is the title character of Bram Stoker's novel Dracula.
This other Polish author wrote another multi-volume historical series beginning with With Fire and Sword, simply known as The Trilogy. His best-known work, Quo Vadis?, centers on the Roman Marcus Vinicius amid the rise of Christianity.
Poland
vampire [accept Der Vampir]
Henryk Sienkiewicz &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
In a novel in this language, a dead schoolteacher called Big Master declares his widow a harlot for marrying Billyboy the Post. For 10 points each:
Name this original language of a novel whose title is alternately rendered as Graveyard Clay or The Dirty Dust in two translations released in 2016 by Yale University Press. A book translated as The Poor Mouth was also written in this language.
The Poor Mouth was written by this author under the pseudonym Myles na gCopaleen. He draw on legends about the mad king Sweeney in his metafictional At Swim-Two-Birds.
This Irish poet wrote “The Wild Swans at Coole” at Lady Augusta Gregory's estate in County Galway, where the Irish language is still spoken by much of the population today.
Irish Gaelic language [Graveyard Clay is by Máirtin Ó Cadhain]
Flann O'Brien [or Brian O'Nolan]
William Butler Yeats &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Kothari&gt;
One chapter in this novel was reworked from a short story in which Enoch Emery dresses in a gorilla suit stolen from a man who had earlier told him to “go to Hell.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Hazel Motes creates the “Church Without Christ” after meeting the street preacher Asa Hawks, who pretends to be blind.
Wise Blood is one of two novels written by this author of The Violent Bear It Away. This Southern Gothic author is more famous for short stories such as “Everything That Rises Must Converge” and “A Good Man is Hard to Find”
In Wise Blood, Enoch steals one of these objects to serve as the “new Jesus” of the Church Without Christ. This object is later cradled by Sabbath Lily before Motes angrily destroys it.
Wise Blood
Flannery O'Connor
a mummy [accept shriveled man, shriveled dwarf, or other clear equivalents]  &lt;Literature American - Tong&gt;
When discussing his political views, one character in this play claims that “he likes to think of himself as a Citizen of the Universe.” For 10 points each:
Name this play whose scene resets every time a bell rings after Bill or Betty mess up the romance. This one-act play is part of a collection along with Words, Words, Words and Variations on the Death of Trotsky.
In David Ives' play Sure Thing, Betty is reading this novel, which Bill mistakenly believes to have been written by Ernest Hemingway. In fact, this novel whose first section is narrated by Benjy Compson was written by William Faulkner.
Description Acceptable At the end of Sure Thing, Bill and Betty decide to do this action. In another novel titled for a man who frequently does this action, the stockbroker Binx Bolling watches a Mardi Gras parade with his cousin, Kate.
Sure Thing
The Sound and the Fury
going to the movies [accept watching a movie or other similar answers; accept specific answers like watch a Woody Allen movie] (the novel is The Moviegoer by Walker Percy) &lt;Literature American - McCullar&gt;
In one of his works, this poet laments the events that lead to the creation of women. However, a fragmentary epic poem about Greek heroines by this man was found at Oxyrhynchus. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek epic poet, the author of the Catalogue of Women. This poet, who wrote around the same time period as Homer, also wrote the Theogony, the story of how the gods and universe came to be.
Unlike the Theogony, Hesiod's Works and Days portrays two different examples of this goddess. One example promotes war and destruction while the other motivates men to work in the spirit of rivalry.
In the Works and Days, Hesiod outlines the creation of Pandora, the first woman, as a punishment for Prometheus' back and forth with Zeus. Since Zeus cannot get the upper hand over the clever Prometheus, he marries Pandora to this foolish brother of Prometheus, whose name literally means “hindsight.”
Hesiod
Eris
Epimetheus &lt;RMP Greek/Roman Myth - Jankov&gt;
Members of this movement met in the Stray Dog Cafe. For 10 points each:
Name this movement, who named their journal Apollon in opposition to the “Dionysian” symbolists. Mikhail Kuzmin and Osip Mandelstam were members of this Silver Age movement founded by Sergei Gorodetsky and Nikolay Gumilev.
This Acmeist, whom Andrei Zhdanov labelled a “harlot-nun,” was once married to Gumilev. She lamented the loss of her son, Lev, to the Great Terror in her Requiem and also wrote a Poem without a Hero.
Akhmatova uncharacteristically claimed ““Where [this man] is, there is Freedom, Peace, and the grandeur of the earth” in a 1950 poem. After writing an epigram denouncing this “Kremlin Highlander,” Osip Mandelstam was targeted in his Great Purge.
Acmeism [or Acmeists; or the Guild of Poets]
Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]
Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Dzughashvili]  &lt;Literature European - Smith&gt;
Early in this pla, Dr. Joe Cardin is called to investigate a girl’s heart pains. For 10 points each:
Name this play about Mary Tilford, a student at an all-girls boarding school who accuses two teachers of having a lesbian affair.
Lillian Hellman, author of The Children’s Hour, also wrote this play in which Sara and her children are political refugees. Sara’s husband, Kurt Mueller, is threatened by Teck to be outed to the Nazis in this play.
Hellman had a long-time relationship with this author, who created the Humphrey Bogart portrayed-Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon.
The Children’s Hour
Watch on the Rhine
Dashiell Hammett
Answer some questions about French plays with ancient Greek subjects, for 10 points each:
Laurence Olivier (Oh-liv-eee-ay) was in the original cast of this author's adaptation of Sophocles' play Antigone, which criticizes Nazi occupation of France.
This contemporary of Moliere and Corneille drew inspiration from Euripides for his plays Phedre and Andromaque. Also heavily inspired by the Bible, he wrote a play about the wife of Judah who worships the god Baal in his play, Athalie, as well as a play about Esther.
A notable difference between Euripides' Hippolytus and Racine's Phedre is the latter's inclusion of this character, Hippolytus' love interest.
Jean Anouilh (AWN-WEE)
Jean-Baptiste Racine
Aricia
Answer the following about references to Alexander the Great in world literature for 10 points each.
This Malian epic refers to Alexander as "the mighty king of gold and silver" and the focal point of a history of kings that the griot Balla Fasseke tells to its protagonist.
In this story, Daniel Dravot is revered as a second coming of Alexander the Great by a tribe descended from his army in the Pakistani region of Kafiristan.
In this epic, a talking tree that Alexander finds at the end of the world tells him that he will die in Babylon. In this epic poem, Rostam accidentally kills his son, Sohrab, in battle.
The Epic of Sundiata [accept Son-Jara]
"The Man who Would Be King" [by Rudyard Kipling]
Shahnameh
A member of the Sieppe family in this novel makes carvings of Noah's Ark. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the title dentist who murders his wife Trina and steals her lottery winnings. This novel ends with the title character handcuffed and wandering in Death Valley.
Frank Norris's McTeague takes place in this US city, also the setting of Vikram Seth's novel written in Onegin stanzas, The Golden Gate.
Brave Orchid meets her sister Moon Orchid at the San Francisco airport in The Woman Warrior, a memoir by this Chinese-American writer. She also wrote Tripmaster Monkey, in which Wittman Ah Sing becomes a beatnik in San Francisco.
: McTeague: A Story of San Francisco [Do NOT reveal the latter part of the title if not given]
San Francisco
Maxine Hong Kingston
This object "bathed in your languor of waves". For 10 points each:
Name this object, the subject of a poem in which it "trembled, hearing at fifty leagues off The moaning of the Behemoths in heat and the thick Maelstroms" and saw "foliage of caves" before going down "impassive rivers."
This Symbolist poet penned "The Drunken Boat" as well as "Lives" and had a relationship with Paul Verlaine.
This collection by Rimbaud, published after A Season in Hell, is a series of prose poems that includes sections such as "After the Flood" and "Winter Feast." This collection was Rimbaud's last work.
The Drunken Boat [or Le Bateau ivre; accept answers indicating the subjects of Rimbaud's "The Drunken Boat" but DO NOT otherwise reveal Rimbaud]
Arthur Rimbaud (RAM-"bow")
Les Illuminations [Accept The Illuminations]
For 10 points each, name some modern Levantine poets.
This Lebanese Christian poet created the character Almustafa who is returning to Orphalese while discussing various topics with different passengers aboard his ship in his book The Prophet.
This poet, whose name translates as "my people lives", wrote a poem whose speaker asks "Let my blood be forgotten." if he were to "Forget Thee, Jerusalem".
A commentary on the destruction of the Six-Day War can be found in this poet's collection A Time Between Ashes and Roses. This Syrian poet and perennial contender for the Nobel Prize also translated Ovid's Metamorphoses into Arabic.
Khalil Gibran [accept Gibran Khalil Gibran]
Yehuda Amichai [accept his original German name, Ludwig Pfeuffer]
Adunis [or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]
Aldhelm was inspired by Symphosius to write some of these works, including ones named for Leiden and one beginning "I am greater than this middle-earth". For 10 points each:
Identify these works, including one named "Creatura", regarding man's role with other animals as subject to God.
This resident of Whitby Abbey was inspired by a dream to write his namesake Old English hymn which praises God. The account of his life comes from the Venerable Bede.
Numerous works of Old English literature are collected in the Exeter Book, including a three-part poem of this figure. In The Dream of the Rood, a piece of wood recounts being used in the cross during the Crucifixion of this figure.
Anglo-Saxon riddles
Caedmon
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined part or obvious equivalents]
The speaker of a poem by this man asks to " be gather'd to the quiet west" while observing the "late lark singing". For 10 points each:
Name this British author who wrote "Margaritae Sorori", as well as a collection of poems while hospitalized with an infected right foot entitled "In Hospital."
Henley is better known for this poem which ends with the speaker declaring "I am the master of my fate,/I am the captain of my soul."
While deriding himself for giving into temptation, this author references "Invictus" by stating "I was not the captain of my soul" in his letter to Lord Alfred Douglas, De Profundis. He also addressed his homosexuality in the poem "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" (jail).
William Ernest Henley
"Invictus"
Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde
Answer some questions related to frogs in ancient Greek literature, for 10 points each.
Homer was originally thought to be the author of Batrachomyomachia which depicts a war between frogs and these animals which ends when Zeus sends an army of crabs to prevent the complete destruction of the frog armies.
Frogs also provides a chorus for Dionysus and Xanthias as they travel in the underworld in a play by this master of Old Comedy.
In one of Aesop's fables, frogs who desire a king originally receive a log and then a snake who eventually eats them, though authors from the Medieval period replaced the snake with one of these birds. One of these birds offered a fox a narrow bowl of soup that only it can drink with its long beak in another fable.
mice
Aristophanes
stork [accept heron]
This concept is said to "bury the day" with the bell and is described as both destroyer and preserver. For 10 points each:
Identify this concept that is declared to be "unredeemable" in the first section of "Burnt Norton," which opens with a discussion of this concept. In another poem, the speaker says that this concept exists for "a hundred indecisions / And for a hundred visions and revisions."
"Burnt Norton" and the Four Quartets were written by this poet. He claimed that "there will be time/To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet" in his "Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."
In this man's poem "Meeting Point," the speaker says that "Time was away and somewhere else." This Irish poet collaborated with his friend W.H. Auden on the collection Letters from Iceland and wrote the long poem "Autumn Journal."
time
Thomas Stearns Eliot
Louis MacNeice
This character meets with Princess Olga in the title story of a collection entitled "[<em>This character</em>] in Russia." For 10 points each:
Identify this character who considers different qualifications for being a poet while imitating the title author in the story "[This character's] Rubaiyat".
Reginald was created by this British author better known for creating Conradin, the ferret worshiping youth in "Sredni Vashtar" and Framton Nuttel in "The Open Window."
In a story by Saki, a baroness on a hunting trip claims that the corpse of a hyena is her deceased dog with this name. In the sixth of Salinger's Nine Stories, Sergeant X talks to a girl with this name and her brother Charles after meeting her in a church.
Reginald
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
Esme [accept "For Esmé—with Love and Squalor"]
For 10 points each, answer the following about French novel cycles.
This collection of connected novels follows French life from the Restoration to the end of the July Monarchy. In this collection, Raphael's wishes for wealth and women eventually kill him and Eugene de Rastignac aggressively pursues social mobility. This collection includes The Wild Ass's Skin.
This 20 novel sequence written by Émile Zola is set during the Second French Empire about the two title families, who are both related to Tante Dide. This cycle includes Nana, which concerns a demimonde who has affairs with and financially wrecks several men before dying of smallpox.
This Pacifist author wrote the 10-volume novel Jean-Christophe, which follows the life of the title German musician. This author's friend, Stefan Zweig, published an influential biography of him.
Human Comedy [or La Comédie humaine]
Les Rougon-Macquart
Romain Rolland
This poem states that the title creature "takes its orders from the Raj" after being "Imported from India and trained to ferret snakes and elude Africans." For 10 points each:
Identify this poem, delivered at the 2008 Calabash Literary Festival, that opens with the lines: "I have been bitten. I must avoid infection/Or else I'll be as dead as Naipaul's fiction."
"The Mongoose" is by this hater of V.S. Naipaul. Notable poems by this St. Lucian Nobel-laureate include the epic Omeros and "Sea Grapes."
This character from Omeros mentions that he was a member of Ghost Dance and travels the Trail of Tears, despite the fact that he is an old blind man from St. Lucia.
"The Mongoose"
Derek Walcott
Seven Seas
This author was photographed wearing a bear suit by her partner Annie Leibovitz. For 10 points each:
Name this author of On Photography who identified Flash Gordon comics as the title form of media in "Notes on Camp."
Sontag once compared the white race to this disease. In Illness as Metaphor, Sontag argues that sufferers of this disease are shunned by members of their family, despite it not being infectious. Sontag was suffering from of this disease when writing Illness as Metaphor.
Many of this author's characters have or fear breast cancer, including Janey in her novel Blood and Guts in High School. Other books by this author include My Death, My Life by Pier Paolo Pasolini and Black Tarantula.
Susan Sontag
cancer [accept any type]
Kathy Acker
Answer the following about Oberlin College's contributions to the literary world. For 10 points each:
This screenwriter, who graduated from Oberlin in 1995, frequently collaborates with director Kathryn Bigelow. He won an Academy Award for The Hurt Locker, and also wrote the screenplays for Zero Dark Thirty and Detroit.
This Oberlin grad described her father Bruce's suicide and her sexuality in the 2006 graphic memoir Fun Home. She also names a "test" that requires a film or book to have two named female characters that speak to each other about something other than a man.
Oberlin is home to a society dedicated to this Nobel Laureate, who frequently used the state of Ohio as the setting of novels such as Beloved and The Bluest Eye.
Mark Boal
Alison Bechdel
Toni Morrison
Answer some questions about the influences of Roman plays on later authors, for 10 points each:
Plautus' play Menaechmi inspired this Shakespeare play about twins with the same name being separated onto the islands on Syracuse and Ephesus.
Glycerium represents the title character of this Terence play, which Niccolo Machiavelli later adapted into Italian. This play, the subject of a novel by Thorton Wilder, ends with Pamphilus marrying Glycerium.
Plautus use of stock characters heavily influenced Western literature, including the servant Palaestrio in this play about the soldier Pyrgopolynices. This play includes a scene in which a hole in the wall allows Honoria to speak with her lover Pleusicles.
The Comedy of Errors
Andria [accept The Girl from Andros]
Miles Gloriosus
In this novel, a woodcutter is impaled for singing a song about Prince Karageorge. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the title structure is built by order of a janissary who was abducted as a boy from the town in which it is set.
The Bridge on the Drina was written in this language, also the language in which the novels Dictionary of the Khazars and A Tomb for Boris Davidovich were written.
In addition to Milorad Pavić, Danilo Kiš, and Ivo Andrić, another Balkan author is Herta Muller, who criticized attacks on ethnic Germans in this country. It's not France, but this country was also the home of the author of Rhinoceros and The Bald Soprano, Eugene Ionesco.
The Bridge on the Drina
Serbo-Croatian [accept Serbian, Bosnian, Croatian, or Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian]
Romania
Swimming is a pervasive motif in the poetry of Walt Whitman. Answer some questions about it, for 10 points each:
What's likely the most famous appearance of swimming and bathing in his poetry is in this poem, where the speaker sees "Twenty-eight young men bathe by the shore" and notes how the "splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon". Earlier the speaker comments how "I loafe and invite my soul."
In "I Sing the Body Electric", the speaker lists off things he enjoys doing with others including "Swim with the swimmers, wrestle with wrestlers" and "march in line with [members of this profession]", who "pause when the bell strikes suddenly again."
In this other poem, the speaker asks the "ruffianly red-trickled waves" if they will kill the "gigantic swimmer", who is "swimming naked through the eddies of the sea".
"Song of Myself"
fireman
"The Sleepers"
For 10 points each, answer the following about literature set in Kolkata.
Identify this author who wrote about Antar tracking L. Murugan in The Calcutta Chromosome. He also wrote about the trade of opium in Sea of Poppies, as well as other books in his Ibis trilogy.
Estha becomes mute after being "returned" to live with his father in Kolkata in The God of Small Things, a novel by this Indian author.
Bi·bhu·ti·bhu·shan Ban·dho·padh·yay wrote a series of novels about this boy from rural Bengal. This boy attends college in Kolkata in Aparajito, the second book about him.
Amitav Ghosh
Arundhati Roy
Apu
Answer some questions about British adaptations and satires of <em>Don Quixote</em>, for 10 points each:
This author is best known for her portrayal of Don Quixote as a woman named Arabella in her novel The Female Quixote. She also offered a feminist reading of Shakespeare in her collection Shakespeare Illuminated.
This author noted that his novel Joseph Andrews was "written in Imitation of the Manner of Cervantes, Author of Don Quixote." He also wrote Tom Jones.
Timothy Crabshaw is reminiscent of Sancho Panza in this Scottish author's novel The Life and Adventures of Sir Launcelot Greaves. This man is more famous for creating a character raised by Commodore Hawser Trunnion, Sir Peregrine Pickle.
Charlotte Lennox
Henry Fielding
Tobias Smollett
Answer some questions about the appearance of Mary Stuart in European literature, for 10 points each.
Lord Darnley is dubbed Arrigo in Maria Stuarda in a play by this Italian dramatist, better known for a play in which the title character kills himself after hearing about the approaching Philistine army, entitled Saul.
Mortimer kills himself after his plan to rescue Mary Stuart from the prison is discovered in a play by this German playwright, better known for Die Räuber (ROY-ber).
The lovesick speaker "tried shooting myself, but it is so complicated/with the weapons." in the sixth of this author's Twenty Sonnets to Mary, Queen of Scots. He may be better known for the collection A Part of Speech.
Vittorio Amedeo Alfieri
Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
Joseph Brodsky
Hawthorne described a series of novels set in this county as being "as if some giant had hewn a great lump out of the earth and put it in a glass case." For 10 points each:
Name this county, the setting of a novel in which Bishop Proudie takes an ecclesiastical seat that had been reserved for Archdeacon Grantly.
This author wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire, whose best-known individual book is Barchester Towers. This 19th century author also wrote the six novel Palliser series.
Another recurring English setting is this author's fictional Wessex which appears in this author's novels Return of the Native and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Barsetshire
Anthony Trollope
Thomas Hardy
This man's "eloquence refin'd" is said to "Inflame the heart, and captivate the mind" in a poem describing how he "sails to Zion through vast seas of day." For 10 points each:
Identify this man who is said to have "wrestled with his God by night" and "charg'd [America's] youth that ev'ry grace divine".
George Whitefield was eulogized by this author, a slave from West Africa who collected the aforementioned poem in her work Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral.
In "His Excellency General Washington", Wheatley recounts how Washington was "fam'd for thy valour, for [this trait] more". In another of her poems entitled "On [this trait]", the speaker calls it a "bright jewel in my aim" and later asks this trait to "leave me not to the false joys of time!"
Reverend Mr. George Whitefield
Phillis Wheatley
Virtue
Along with <em>Madame Bovary</em> and <em>Anna Karenina</em>, JPM Stern proposed this novel as the third volume in a trilogy criticizing late 19th century marriage norms. For 10 points each:
Name this Theodor Fontane novel in which the title character kills herself after having an affair with Major Crampas.
The most famous novel of another 19th century Theodor, Theodor Storm, is titled for one of these people who fails to prevent a flood in his North Sea port town. This is the first title noun of a John Millington Synge (“singe”) play set in the Aran Islands in which all of Maurya's sons die by drowning.
Both Theodor Storm and Theodor Fontane hailed from this European country, also the home of writers such as Alfred Döblin and Heinrich Boll (Bool).
Effi Briest
Riders [accept Der Schimmelreiter, The Rider on the White Horse, Riders to the Sea]
Germany [accept Deutschland, West Germany]
Answer the following about pseudonyms in British literature for 10 points each.
This author first used her pen name when writing "The Sad Fortunes of the Reverend Amos Barton", the first story in her collection Scenes of Clerical Life. She later used her male pseudonym for novels such as Middlemarch
For Colonel Sun, the first James Bond novel not written by Ian Fleming, this author used the pseudonym "Robert Markham." This author's most famous work focuses on a professor who has an essay on medieval shipbuilding stolen by his editor.
This noted translator of Virgil and member of the Auden Group used the pseudonym "Nicholas Blake" to write crime novels featuring Nigel Strangeways. He was also known for poetry collections such as A Time to Dance, and served as Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom from 1968 to 1972.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
Kingsley Amis [prompt on just Amis]
Cecil Day-Lewis
Answer the following about the Heinemann African Writers Series for 10 points each.
The Heinemann series helped repopularize this "historical romance" originally published in Sotho by Thomas Mofolo, which incorporates Sotho legends about the title king.
The series also includes Ayi Kwei Armah's novel The Beautyful Ones Are Not Yet Born. Armah was a novelist from this country, also home to the author of Homegoing, Yaa Gyasi.
This Nigerian author served as editor of the series. He is most famous for a novel in which the wrestler Okonkwo commits suicide, Things Fall Apart.
Chaka
Ghana
Albert Chinua Achebe
Answer the following about literary reactions to the Sacco and Vanzetti trial for 10 points each:
This author wrote about Mio Romagna trying to prove his father innocent after his execution in Winterset. This playwright worked with Kurt Weill (Vile) to write a musical based on Cry, the Beloved Country.
One autobiographical section in this novelist's most famous trilogy includes the line "they have built the electricchair and hired the executioner to throw the switch/ all right we are two nations" in response to the trial.
"The Sacco and Vanzetti Poem" was written by the poet Jacob Glatstein in this language, in which Isaac Bashevis Singer wrote the works, including Gimpel the Fool, for which he won the Nobel Prize.
Maxwell Anderson
John Dos Passos
Yiddish
This character is described as carrying a heavy bag, a folding stool, a picnic basket and a greatcoat when he first appears. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who mentions "the public works of Puncher and Wattman" in a speech that ends with him muttering ". . . the stones . . . so calm . . . Cunard . . . unfinished . . ."
Lucky mentions this sport 9 times in his monologue, stating that he would "resume alas alas abandoned unfinished the skull the skull in Connemara" in spite of this sport. This is the first sport mentioned before "football running cycling swimming flying floating" and more!
Lucky appears with Pozzo, Vladimir, and Estragon in this Samuel Beckett play centering on the arrival of the title character who never shows up.
Lucky
Tennis
Waiting for Godot
For 10 points each, answer the following about poets who wrote about the American Civil War.
This Southern Agrarian poet and co-author of the manifesto I'll Take My Stand used a recurring image of leaves swirling in a cemetery in his "Ode to the Confederate Dead."
Robert Lowell's poem "For the Union Dead" begins at an aquarium in this city and focuses on a statue of Robert Gould Shaw in this city. A Robert Frost collection is titled North of this city.
This "Poet Laureate of the Confederacy" compared "Dark Sumpter" to a "battlemented cloud" in "Charleston." This poet also wrote an ode that was sung at a grave decoration at Magnolia Cemetery in Charleston, South Carolina.
Allen Tate
Boston, Massachusetts
Henry Timrod
The speaker reminds a character with this name that she had "liv'd unknown" after telling her "Twas I that gave thee thy renown" in the poem "Ingrateful Beauty Threatened." For 10 points each:
Thomas Carew (CARE-EE) wrote about a woman with what name whom he asks to "fly with me to Love's Elysium" in his poem "A Rapture?" Another woman of this name is asked to "leave a kiss" and that the speaker will "not look for wine."
A poem addressing a woman named Celia by this author asks her to "drink to me only with thine eyes." This author is better known for his play Volpone.
Description Acceptable. In the second stanza of Jonson's "To Celia", the speaker recounts how he sent her one of these, "But thou thereon did'st only breathe, And sent'st it back to me." The poem ends with the speaker expressing joy that it now smells like her.
Celia
Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]
rosy wreath [accept descriptions like a "bouquet of roses"; prompt on flowers]
Answer the following about politically active American screenwriters in the mid-20th century. For 10 points each:
After refusing to testify on his involvement with Communism as part of the Hollywood Ten, this screenwriter was blacklisted, winning academy awards under the pseudonym "Robert Rich" for his films Roman Holiday and The Brave One.
British audiences boycotted this man’s Zionist film A Flag is Born for its sympathetic portrayal of militant Jewish groups. This screenwriter was nicknamed the "Shakespeare of Hollywood" and was also heavily involved in civil rights activism of the 1920s.
Trumbo, along with screenwriters such as Lillian Hellman and Edward Dmytryk, were targeted by this committee that investigated Communist influence in media during the McCarthyist period.
Dalton Trumbo
Ben Hecht
House Un-American Activities Committee
<em>NOTE TO MODERATORS, NOT TO BE READ ALOUD: Do not reveal the musical in the first part.</em> NOTE TO PLAYERS: For the first part of this bonus, a description is acceptable, though the answer also has a name. In this section of a larger work, Buddha freezes a river, allowing a woman to flee across it. He then melts the river, drowning the pursuing men. For 10 points each:
Name this narrated ballet. Near its end, the narrator declares that she is glad at the death of the pursuing man, and of any ruler "who pursues a slave who is unhappy and wish to join her lover."
"The Small House of Uncle Thomas" is an excruciatingly long and uncomfortable-to-watch part of this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, in which Anna tutors the children of the ruler of Siam.
Tuptim, who adapts Uncle Tom's Cabin into "The Small House of Uncle Thomas," sings a duet with Lun Tha titled for performing this action "in a Shadow."
"The Small House of Uncle Thomas" [accept Uncle Tom's Cabin; accept any answers referring to Uncle Tom or Eliza or King Simon of Legree; prompt on answers such as the ballet from The King and I that do not mention the characters]
The King and I
kissing [accept "We Kiss in a Shadow"]
In the opening of one essay, this author defined man as an "inveterate dreamer." For 10 points each:
Identify this author who clashed with Yvan Goll while defining the ethos of an early 1900's literary and artistic movement. This author called that movement "pure psychic automatism" in an essay from 1924.
Breton authored the manifesto of this movement in literature that included poets such as Paul Éluard, who was friends with painters from this movement including Salvador Dalí.
Breton and other surrealists were a fan of this Mad Libs-esque language game in which contributors add a word to a sentence without knowing what came before it. The name of this game comes from the first sentence constructed, which stated that the title being "shall drink the new wine."
André Breton (bruh-TAWN)
Surrealism [accept word forms, such as Surrealists]
Exquisite Corpse [or exquisite cadaver; accept cadavre exquis] [prompt on consequences, which is a similar game]
In one scene in this novel, a Cherokee woman gives her baby to the protagonist from Kentucky who has traveled West. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Taylor Greer learns to take care of Turtle and interacts with the illegal immigrant Estevan.
The Bean Trees was the first novel by this American author who also wrote about the family of Baptist minister Nathan Price in The Poisonwood Bible.
In The Poisonwood Bible, the Price family is staying in this country as they learn the Belgians are leaving this country. Conrad's Heart of Darkness mostly takes place on a river that shares its name with this country.
The Bean Trees
Barbara Kingsolver
The Congo [accept DRC or Republic of the Congo or Congo Free State]
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the narrative of accidentally pulling children apart in literature.
The most famous version of the story is the Biblical narrative known as the Judgment of Solomon, which is indexed as 926 on this classification system of folktales.
Grusha cannot bring herself to hurt the infant Michael and thus is awarded custody of him in The Caucasian Chalk Circle, a play by this modern German author.
The narrator recounts how "In this manner, the issue was decided" after a young couple argues over custody at the end of the story "Little Things" by this American author.
Aarne-Thompson classification system [accept Aarne-Thompson-Uther classification system]
Bertolt Brecht [accept Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht]
Raymond Clevie Carver
Sometimes epic poems aren't real. For 10 points each:
The works of this ancient bard were celebrated by 18th century European romantics before their actual author, James MacPherson, was exposed. In The Sorrows of Young Werther, the title character reads his love interest the works of this poet.
The Turkish-born botanist Constantine Rafinesque claimed to have lost the bark pictograms that he transcribed this Lenape ("luh-NAH-pay") creation epic from. Later ethnographic research among actual Lenape determined that they found this epic "puzzling and nearly incomprehensible", thus cementing its status as a forgery.
William Ireland was best known for forging this author's plays. His forgery Vortigern and Rowena shared many characteristics with this author's actual play Cymbeline.
Ossian [accept Oisin]
Walam Olum [accept The Red Record]
William Shakespeare
Answer the following about Archibald Ormsby-Gore for 10 points each.
Archibald was a teddy bear belonging to this British poet laureate from 1972-1984, who invited "friendly bombs" to fall on the title town in his poem "Slough."
Archibald inspired Aloysius, a teddy bear belonging to this literary character who retires late in the book he appears in to a monastery in Tunisia.
Sebastian Flyte appears in Brideshead Revisited, the most famous novel of this British author who also wrote A Handful of Dust.
Sir John Betjeman
Lord Sebastian Flyte [prompt on Flyte]
Evelyn Waugh
In a play set in this city, the prostitute Hester returns to her brother Johnnie's home to settle affairs regarding an inheritance from their father. For 10 points each:
Identify this city, setting of the plays Hello and Goodbye and Blood Knot.
Those plays were set in Port Elizabeth along with Boesman and Iena and "Master Harold"... and the boys by this South Africa author.
Athol Fugard created this group for black actors including Winston Ntshona and John Kani which regularly performed plays in Port Elizabeth.
Port Elizabeth, South Africa [accept The Bay]
Athol Fugard [or Harold Athol Lanigan Fugard]
Serpent Players
For 10 points each, answer the following about the historical works of the Comte de Volney in 19th century literature.
In one novel, Felix De Lacey teaches Safie, a woman from this country, French using Volney's Ruins of Empires. Another woman from this country, Haydee, helps engineer Fernand Morcerf's downfall in The Count of Monte Cristo.
A monster learns to read using a copy of Volney's Ruins in this Mary Shelley novel.
Volney's descriptions of Argentina's geography are frequently cited as reasons for gauchos' barbarism in this Domingo Sarmiento novel that spends much of its length attacking the dictator Juan Manuel Rosas.
Ottoman Empire [also accept Turkey]
Frankenstein or, The Modern Prometheus
Facundo or, Civilization and Barbarism
The addressee of a poem of this type by William Bosworth reads a superscription which ends by noting "And happiness shall be your innocence." For 10 points each:
Name this type of poem, another of which declares "A heart alone is such a stone" and describes the construction of the title object "Made of a heart and cemented with tears."
The aforementioned poem, "The Altar", was written by this Anglican priest and poet who paired it with another poem, "Easter Wings", and wrote the collection The Temple.
Herbert is sometimes included in this group of 17th-Century English poets that includes Henry Vaughan and John Donne. This group's name was coined by Samuel Johnson.
altar poem [prompt on pattern poem or shape poem]
George Herbert
Metaphysical poets
The italicized phrase "Write It!" punctuates the last line of this poem where the speaker says things like losing keys and cities is "no disaster". For 10 points each:
Name this villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master".
"One Art" is by this poet who dedicated her poem "The Armadillo" to her long-time friend Robert Lowell. Like Marianne Moore, she has a poem titled "The Fish."
In this poem by Bishop, the first stanza mentions royals "Edward, Prince of Wales" and "King George and Queen Mary". This poem memorializes "Uncle Arthur" who the speaker thinks died too young.
"One Art"
Elizabeth Bishop
"First Death In Nova Scotia"
In one work by this author, the Socialist Party allows an Islamist group to win the 2022 presidential election. For 10 points each:
Identify this author of the 2015 novel Submission who wrote about a man travelling to Thailand for sex tourism in Platform.
This character is shot by a man suffering from heatstroke. Kamel Daoud retells the novel in which this man appears from the point of view of his brother Harun.
Michel Houellebecq is from this country, where Albert Camus moved to from Algeria.
Michel Houellebecq (Mi-shell HWELL-beck)
The Arab [or l'arabe; accept anything mentioning the Arab who gets shot in The Stranger; also accept Musa, the name Daoud gives him]
France
Lan Samantha Chang serves as the director of a writing program at this university, where writers like Philip Roth and Kurt Vonnegut have served as faculty members. For 10 points each:
Name this Midwestern university, where Paul Engle previously served as the writing program director. The city it is located in has a namesake "Literary Walk" with biographical details about authors formerly associated with it.
This former faculty member at Iowa was a member of the Southern Agrarian group of writers. He wrote about Willie Stark in his Pulitzer Prize winning novel All the King's Men.
Another graduate of the workshop, Wallace Stegner, wrote the novel Angle of Repose, which drew on letters written by this woman about the American west. She wrote stories about her experiences which were published in The Century Magazine.
University of Iowa [accept Iowa Writer's Workshop]
Robert Penn Warren
Mary Hallock Foote
In the preface to a translated edition to this book, an author stated that his edition only included 30 of its 100 chapters to focus more on the specifics of the included chapters. For 10 points each:
Identify this book translated by Arthur Waley which he dubbed Monkey after the character Sun Wukong.
This translator of the Upanishads provided a German translation of numerous Indian folk tales in the collection Hitopadesa. He may be better known for analyzing the natural, physical, anthropological, and psychological types of religion in his Gifford Lectures.
Donald Keene gave the subtitle Its Background and Importance to his translation of this author's puppet play The Battles of Coxinga. Keene also published an edition of Four Major Plays of [this author], including The Uprooted Pine and The Love Suicides of Sonezaki.
Journey to the West
Max Müller
Chikamatsu Monzaemon [accept Sugimori Nobumori]
Along with La Bruyere and Vauvenargues, Nietzsche received a copy of some work by this man which he studied so intently that Cosima Wagner said he had perfect knowledge of these Frenchmen. For 10 points each:
Identify this French writer known for his 504 maxims including one where he claimed "If we had no faults, we would not take so much pleasure in noticing those of others."
La Rochefoucauld was known as one of the top men of these objects in his day. Voltaire sent tons of these objects to people like Frederick the Great and Denis Diderot ("DEE-der roh").
People of this sort were written about by La Rochefoucauld, but more famously in a Montaigne essay in which he described the Tupinamba people and alludes to Plato's Timaeus.
François de La Rochefoucauld ("La Roo-chel-foo-coh")
Letters [accept obvious equivalent such as mailed notes]
Cannibals [accept "Of Cannibals"; prompt on "native Americans" by asking "What specifically about Native Americans"?]
William Carlos Williams defended this poem in one of his own poems that begins "We cannot go to the country / for the country will bring us / no peace." For 10 points each:
Identify this 1596 poem in which the speaker tells a suitor that she has no interest "To live with thee and be thy love," referencing an earlier poem by a different author.
Sir Walter Raleigh's "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd" is a response to this man's poem "The Passionate Shepherd to his Love." He also wrote "Hero and Leander."
In the second stanza in "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd," Raleigh refers to this Greek mythological figure, saying that she "becometh dumb." Sir Philip Sidney references this figure's myth in a poem in which he tells her story, "The Nightingale."
"The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd"
Christopher Marlowe
Philomela
While following his friend around town, one character in this story notices a woman wearing her "Sunday finery." For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Corley cons a woman out of a gold coin, eventually giving it to his friend Lenehan.
In this story by the author of "Two Gallants," the title girl refuses to move to Buenos Aires with Frank after hearing a street organ and recalling her mother chant "Derevaun Seraun."
Both "Two Gallants" and "Eveline" are part of this short story collection by James Joyce about residents of the title Irish city.
"Two Gallants"
"Eveline"
Dubliners
Charles De Gaulle once asked how it was possible to govern a nation with 246 varieties of cheese. Answer the following about some of those varieties for 10 points each.
One French cheese, Roquefort, is a cheese of this type, as is Gorgonzola. This type of cheese's veins are produced by the introduction of Penicillium cultures.
This cheese similar to Brie and Pont l'Eveque is named for the Norman village that it originates from. Contrary to popular belief, this cheese's rind is in fact meant to be eaten.
The rind of this Burgundian cheese is washed in local brandy and brine, and it is so soft that it's primarily eaten with spoons. The art of making this cheese nearly went extinct during the World Wars before a revival in the 1950s.
blue cheese
Camembert
Epoisses (Ep-oy-see) De Bourgogne
Answer the following about authors who love to include themselves in their novels. For 10 points each:
From 2009 to 2011, this Norwegian author wrote a series of six autobiographical novels called My Struggle, often not censoring details of the private lives of his friends and family. The 6th book of this author's series includes a lengthy essay on Adolf Hitler.
Ka's letters to Ipek in Snow are found by this Turkish author, who also wrote Museum of Innocence as well as Snow itself.
Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth comprise this author's autobiographical trilogy about a young boy named Nikolina. The Kingdom of God Is Within You is an expression of this author's religion-based principle of nonviolence.
Karl Ove Knausgård
Orhan Pamuk
Leo Tolstoy
Answer the following about American authors who have appeared in a nearly all-encompassing anthology of culture— <em>The Simpsons</em>. For 10 points each:
In a nod to his reclusiveness, this author appeared with a bag over his head and made several food-based puns based on his work, including "The Frying of Latke 49", a recipe supposedly in his "Gravity's Rainbow Cookbook."
This US Poet Laureate who wrote the collections The Want Bone and The Figured Wheel appears reading his poems to Lisa at Springfield University's Cafe Kafka. This man also translated The Inferno while maintaining terza rima.
In another episode, Tom Wolfe invites Moe to a writer's conference at which Michael Chabon ("SHAY"-bahn) punches this author after shouting "I think your nose needs some Corrections" as Gore Vidal looks on. This author also wrote a novel named after a woman who goes by the nickname "Pip", Purity.
Thomas Pynchon
Robert Pinsky
Jonathan Franzen
This author's most famous work is often analyzed in terms of the Japanese vocabulary of <em>amaeru</em>, or dependence on others. For 10 points each,
Name this author of The Metamorphosis and a short story about "A Hunger Artist."
In one novel by this author, Nakata takes a job searching for lost cats. Toru Watanabe and Toru Okada are two of this author's other protagonists.
This Asian-South African author of Kafka's Curse also wrote a novel about the mixed-race couple Silas and Lydia Ali, Bitter Fruit.
Franz Kafka
Haruki Murakami
Achmat Dangor
This folk song describes California as "a garden of Eden, a paradise to live in or see." For 10 points each:
Identify this song, part of the Dust Bowl Ballads, that tells migrants to "go back to beautiful Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Georgia, Tennessee" if they "ain't got" the title phrase, a slang term for money.
"Do, Re, Mi" and the Dust Bowl Ballads were written by this socialist songwriter of "This Land is Your Land."
Guthrie was inspired by this literary family when writing "Do, Re Mi." Guthrie wrote a song about a member of this family getting "out of the old Macalester Pen" and meeting with Preacher Casey.
"Do, Re, Mi"
Woody Guthrie
Joad Family [accept "Tom Joad," as that is the song mentioned]
In this novel, June Morrissey freezes to death after fleeing her husband to an oil town West of their reservation. For 10 points each,
Name this novel in which Gordie Kashpaw struggles with alcoholism and leads his North Dakota Ojibwe community with his family.
One character in this Spokane author's novel The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian transfers to Reardan High School after hitting one of his teachers. This author also wrote the short story collection The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven.
This author integrated the mythology of his Kiowa people into his novels The Way to Rainy Mountain and The House Made of Dawn, the latter of which won the 1963 Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
Love Medicine
Sherman Alexie
N. Scott Momaday
Answer some questions about the literary career of Joseph Addison for 10 points each.
He co-founded The Spectator publication with this contemporary author, with whom he had earlier founded The Tatler, as well assisted him in writing the play The Tender Husband.
Addison wrote a play about this historical figure subtitled "A tragedy." In Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, his death is compared to that of Titinius following the Battle of Philippi, and his daughter Portia expresses her trepidation about Caesar going to the Senate at the conclusion of Act II.
After supporting Thomas Tickell's translation of The Iliad, Joseph Addison was criticized in "An Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot", a poem by this English author of the mock epic The Rape of the Lock.
Sir Richard Steele
Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis [or Cato the Younger; prompt on Cato]
Alexander Pope
In Julia Alvarez's novel <em>How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents</em>, their father Carlos is approached by agents of Rafael Trujillo in a chapter titled for "The Blood of [these people]". For 10 points each:
Identify these people who are said to harm "La Chingada" and are compared to "chingones" in one essay.
The aforementioned essay, "The Sons of La Malinche", is collected along with other essays regarding Mexican culture and history including "The Day of the Dead" and "The Conquest and Colonialism" in The Labyrinth of Solitude by this author.
Strongmen are commonly depicted in the genre of dictator novels, which include this Augusto Roa Bastos work in which Dr. Francia finds a note on a cathedral door describing how his funeral should be celebrated.
conquistadors
Octavio Paz Lozano
Yo, el Supremo [or I, the Supreme]
In one work in this genre, the knight Muldumarec turns into a bird to seduce the Lord of Caerwent's wife. For 10 points each:
Name this genre, frequently based on Breton folktales, famous examples of which besides Yonec included Guigemar and Bisclavret, which provides an early depiction of werewolves.
Marie de France, the author of the lais, preceded this other medieval French author by approximately two centuries. Her The Book of the City of Ladies was written as a refutation of popular misogynistic tracts.
Pisan heavily used this author's On Famous Women as a source for The Book of the City of Ladies. In this author's most famous work, a group of ten companions tells stories while fleeing the plague in Florence.
lays [accept lais]
Christine de Pisan
Giovanni Boccaccio
The protagonist of this novella works in a library, where a black boy comes in every day to look at a book of paintings by Gauguin. For 10 points each:
Name this novella, titled for a song sung at a college graduation ceremony. It is collected in its title volume with short stories such as "You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings."
Goodbye, Columbus is by this Jewish-American author of Portnoy's Complaint.
In "You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings," it is revealed that the teacher Russo had been a member of this group. One of Roth's Zuckerman novels is titled for the tell-all memoir Eve Frame writes about her marriage to Ira Ringold, a member of this group.
Goodbye, Columbus
Philip Milton Roth
Communist Party of the United States of America [or Communists; accept I Married a Communist; accept Marxists]
This character does not get to finish telling the story of Sir Thopas before the Host interrupts him to tell him that his rhymes suck. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who then gives a long and boring prose account of Melibee and his wife Prudence.
The character Chaucer serves as the frame narrator of this collection by the real-life Geoffrey Chaucer, in which a group of pilgrims traveling to the shrine of Thomas Becket tell each other stories.
Chaucer the character isn't just a bad rhymer: in the prologue, he offers this excuse as to why he may not have ordered the pilgrims in his tales by their proper rank. A description is acceptable.
Geoffrey Chaucer [accept either name; prompt on the narrator or similar answers]
The Canterbury Tales [or Tales of Canterbury]
"My wit is short, ye may wel understonde" [accept any answers indicating that he is stupid]
This poet wrote "The waterfall tresses over the night / While the night beds to rest" in a long poem illustrated by Pablo Picasso. For 10 points each:
Identify this author of Altazor who led the Chilean literary movement Creacionismo.
Huidobro claimed that this other Chilean poet plagiarized Tagore while writing his Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, which this poet published at age 19.
Pablo Neruda took his pen name from Jan Neruda, a poet who wrote in this language. A play in this non-English language is about Hugo Pludek who becomes the leader of the Central Inauguration and Liquidation Committee, titled The Garden Party.
Vicente Huidobro
Pablo Neruda [or Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto]
Czech
The title story of this collection features a book in the Royal Library of Sweden that describes the lives of every person, including the narrator's father. For 10 points each:
Identify this short story collection that attempts to "piece together the hybrid identity of the Balkans," written by Danilo Kiš (keesh).
The Encyclopedia of the Dead opens with a story about Simon Magus, who appears on paper money in the second part of this German playwright's Faust.
Kiš includes the anti-Semitic Sergei Nilus in one story from The Encyclopedia of the Dead. Nilus' epilogue to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion is quoted in this Umberto Eco novel about the employees of Garamond Publishing who create a conspiracy theory called "The Plan."
The Encyclopedia of the Dead [accept Enciklopedija mrtvih]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (“Ger-tuh”)
Foucault's Pendulum [accept Il pendolo di Foucault]
This author's quote "If they give you ruled paper, write the other way" serves as the epigraph to <em>Fahrenheit 451</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this winner of the 1956 Nobel Prize in Literature who compared the title donkey to "steel and moon silver" in his prose poem "Platero y yo"
Jiménez is from the same country as this author of the "nivola" Mist, published in 1914. A more famous work by this author describes Joaquin and Abel Sanchez, two feuding brothers.
Unamuno was part of the Spanish Generation of '98 along with Antonio Machado, who described the murder of this Generation of '27 poet in "The Crime Was in Granada." This poet wrote Gypsy Ballads.
Juan Ramón Jiménez Mantecón
Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo
Federico García Lorca [prompt on Garcia]
This novella contains a description of "shoggoths," beings that are capable of taking on any shape as needed. For 10 points each:
Name this novella in which William Dyer leads an expedition to Antarctica and encounters a civilization built by the "Elder Things."
This author of At the Mountains of Madness wrote stories such as "The Shadow over Innsmouth" and "The Shadow Out of Time" as part of his Cthulhu Mythos.
Dr. Dyer in At the Mountains of Madness is employed at this fictional university in Arkham, Massachusetts. This institution also employs Herbert West in "Reanimator," the first story to mention this university.
At the Mountains of Madness
Howard Phillips Lovecraft
Miskatonic University
Answer the following about David Garrick's reinterpretations of English drama for 10 points each.
Garrick's version of this play completely removes the impotent Mr. Horner, therefore changing the entire plot. This explicit play by William Wycherley famously includes a "china scene," in which Horner and Lady Fidget speak solely in double entendres.
Garrick cut this scene from his staging of Hamlet, which begins with two characters asking riddles such as "What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?" Later in this scene, Hamlet says that "forty thousand brothers / Could not, with all their quantity of love, / make up my sum."
Garrick completely rewrote this Shakespeare comedy and removed the character of Christopher Sly. Garrick chose to re-title this play after its main characters Catherine and Petruchio.
The Country Wife
Act V, Scene 1 [accept Gravediggers scene]
The Taming of the Shrew
As the father of one of this author's protagonists is in a hospital contemplating heart surgery, the protagonist goes to a planetarium to try to get her mind off her father and her children Nichola and Judith. For 10 points each:
Name this short-story author of "The Moons of Jupiter" who wrote about how Fiona is moved into the Meadowlake medical facility after being diagnosed with Alzheimer's in "The Bear Came over the Mountain."
The Nobel Prize in Literature recipient Alice Munro is a native of this North American country that is also home to Margaret Atwood.
In this book by the Montreal author Mordecai Richler, the title Jewish boy is told by his father that "a man without land is a nobody." That title character of this book leads a gang called the Warriors and sells Tijuana bibles as a boy.
Alice Munro
Canada
The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz
This man argued that "wild men" such as Thiess of Kaltenbrun and Alpine folk witches were remnants of a pan-European religion in his <em>The Night Battles</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this historian, also famed for a work centered on the heretic miller Menocchio.
Ginzburg was a native of this country, where Niccolo Machiavelli wrote a commentary on the ancient Roman historian Livy.
Ginzburg pioneered this genre of historical writing, which focuses on very small areas and spans of time. Other practitioners of this genre include Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie.
Carlo Ginzburg
Italy
Microhistory
Answer some questions about roses in poetry, for 10 points each:
This author's poem "Advice to a Prophet" invokes the "rose of our love and the clean / Horse of our courage" and implores the reader to "ask us whether with the worldless rose / our hearts shall fail us."
A poem by James Oppenheim which was adapted into a protest song used by the early 20th century labor movement declared that "it is this substance we fight for, but we fight for roses too." That poem is titled for this substance "and roses."
Gregory Corso, a poet from this movement, wrote an ode "To a Downfallen Rose." Other members of this literary movement included William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.
Richard Wilbur
bread
Beat Generation
A man in this story remarks that he has his "death face" after looking in the mirror while shaving;. For 10 points each:
Identify this short story in which the Lieutenant Shinji and his wife Reiko kill themselves instead of suppressing a mutiny against the army.
In addition to "Patriotism," this author also wrote the Sea of Fertility tetralogy and Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
In the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, Shigekuni Honda recognizes the reincarnated forms of Kiyoaki Matsugae by this distinct physical feature.
"Patriotism" [or Yūkoku]
Yukio Mishima [accept names in either order]
All have three moles [prompt on partial answer; prompt on birthmarks or equivalents]
This author used the backs of receipts and calendars to write a series of stories written in extremely small script. For 10 points each:
Identify this Swiss writer who produced "microscripts" in a sanatorium. He also wrote a novel about the title boy who attends the Benjamenta Institute, Jakob (YAH-cub) von Gunten.
Susan Sontag described Wasler as being the "missing link" between this author of The Marquise of O and Kafka. This author also wrote about a horse dealer who rebels against a Junker in Michael Kohlhaas.
In 2000, this author wrote about the "genius" of Walser for the New York Review of Books. His own novels include The Life and Times of Michael K. and Disgrace.
Robert Walser
Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von Kleist
John Maxwell Coetzee
Answer the following about the Hindu devotional poet Tulsīdās (“tul-see-DAHS”), who is notable for writing in vernacular. For 10 points each:
Tulsīdās’s most popular work today is a forty-verse poem in praise of this monkey-like god that describes his devotion towards Rāma. The poem also mentions this god’s attempt to eat the Sun.
Tulsīdās’s adaptation of the Rāmāyana is used in a folk festivity whose name pairs “Rām” with this Sanskrit word. This word, often translated as “play” or “sport,” also refers to interactions between Brahman (“BRUM-hun”) and the world.
Tulsīdās adapted the Rāmāyana into the Gītāvalī (“gee-TAH-vuh-lee”), which is a collection of these works. The word gītā literally refers to one of these works, which are based on rāgas and have varieties like bhajana (“BUH-juh-nuh”) and kīrtana (“KEER-tuh-nuh”).
Hanumān [accept Hanumān Chālīsa (“huh-noo-MAHN chah-LEE-suh”)]
līlā (“LEE-lah”) [or Rāmlīlā; or Rāma Līlā] (The adaptation is the Rāmcharitmānas.)
songs [or singing or gāna; or hymns; or melodies or melody; accept chants; prompt on music] &lt;AP, Religion&gt;
A poet with this surname stated that he’d never forget a stone in the title location for the lifetime of his “fatigued retinas” in his poem “In the Middle of the Road.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname of the poet of a “Friendly Song” once printed on some Brazilian currency. An unrelated poet of this surname pioneered Brazilian modernism through his collection Hallucinated City and his novel Macunaíma (“ma-koo-na-EE-muh”).
Although Mário de Andrade used some Tupi slang in Macunaíma, both de Andrades wrote in this primary language of Brazil.
Despite admitting that she spoke Portuguese “like a dog,” this poet of “The Armadillo” translated much of Carlos Drummond de Andrade’s poetry into English. She repeated the line “The art of losing isn’t hard to master” in the villanelle “One Art.”
de Andrade (“jee on-DRAH-jee”) [accept Carlos Drummond de Andrade or Mário de Andrade]
Portuguese [or Brazilian Portuguese; or Português]
Elizabeth Bishop &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
This poem describes a “sea-worm” as “grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent.” For 10 points each:
Name this Thomas Hardy poem set “In a solitude of the sea / Deep from human vanity.” Its lines are arranged to form the shape of an ocean liner’s prow in reference to its subject matter, the sinking of the Titanic.
This poet used his trademark “sprung rhythm” technique in his poem about the “Wreck of the Deutschland (“DOYTCH-lont”),” which is dedicated “To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns.”
This poet said to have predicted his death by shipwreck with the lines “My spirit’s bark is driven, / Far from the shore” in his poem “Adonais” (“ad-oh-NAY-iss”). He also wrote “Ode to the West Wind,” “To a Skylark,” and “Ozymandias.”
“The Convergence of the Twain”
Gerard Manley Hopkins
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
This character, who is nicknamed “Broom” because the aides make him sweep the halls, speaks for the first time in years when another character gives him a package of Juicy Fruit. For 10 points each:
Name this “Chronic” who, at the end of the novel he narrates, euthanizes a lobotomized Randall McMurphy.
Chief Bromden narrates this Ken Kesey novel that centers on a psychiatric ward ruled by the tyrannical Nurse Ratched (“RATCH-id”).
Throughout the novel, Bromden believes that fog is being blown into the ward by this imaginary entity that he believes punishes those who don’t adhere to rigid social norms.
Chief Bromden [accept Big Chief Bromden; prompt on Chief or Chief Broom]
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
the Combine &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
Under the pen name “Lonely Orphan Girl,” this journalist wrote a letter to the editor in response to a column titled “What Girls Are Good For,” earning her a job offer. For 10 points each:
Name this reporter who faked insanity to infiltrate the asylum on Blackwell Island, an experience that she detailed in Ten Days in a Mad House.
Bly published her exposé in the New York World, a paper owned by this publisher and rival of William Randolph Hearst. In his will, he established a namesake award for journalism, letters, and music.
The competition between the New York World and this Hearst-owned paper gave rise to the tactics of “yellow journalism,” so named because this paper poached the Yellow Kid cartoon series from the New York World.
Nellie Bly [or Elizabeth Jane Cochrane]
Joseph Pulitzer
New York Journal-America [or New York Morning Journal; prompt on Journal] &lt;JH, American History&gt;
While locked in a bathroom, a character in this novel fantasizes about destroying his captor’s stuffed owl. For 10 points each:
Name this Mikhail Bulgakov novel in which the surgeon Philip Philipovich Preobrazhensky surgically implants a human pituitary gland in Sharik, causing him to become the man Polygraph Polygraphovich.
This other Russian author wrote about Gurov’s affair with Anna Sergeyevna in “The Lady with a Dog.” The pistol in his play Uncle Vanya provides a literal example of a dramatic principle known as this author’s “gun.”
A deaf-mute porter of this name is forced to drown his beloved pet dog Mumu in an anti-serfdom story by Ivan Turgenev (“tur-GAIN-yeff”). Another peasant of this name spends hours propping up the title character’s legs in Tolstoy’s Death of Ivan Ilyich.
The Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept translations with any combination of articles]
Anton Chekhov [accept Chekhov’s gun]
Gerasim (“gyeh-ruh-SEEM”) &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
This poem ends with the image of “A four-foot box, a foot for every year.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the narrator returns to his home from college to attend his younger brother’s funeral.
This Irish poet of “Mid-Term Break” also translated Beowulf and wrote the lines “Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests; snug as a gun” in “Digging,” part of his collection the Death of the Naturalist.
Heaney’s collection Opened Ground also contains this poem that describes “palms sticky as Bluebeard’s.” This poem describes the discovery of “a rat-grey fungus” and ends “Each year I hoped they’d keep, knew they would not.”
“Mid-Term Break”
Seamus Heaney (“SHAY-muss HEE-nee”)
“Blackberry-Picking” &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
The narrators of this poem state, “We tell you, tapping on our brows, the story as it should be, – as if the story of a house were told, or ever could be.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem about an unhappy wife that begins, “She fears him, and will always ask what fated her to choose him.”
“Eros Turannos” is by this American poet, who wrote about “a gentleman from sole to crown” who “went home and put a bullet through his head” in “Richard Cory.”
This humorist wrote a parody of “Richard Cory” in which his suicide is blamed on a difficult wife. This creator of Lake Wobegon, Minnesota, had his show The Writer’s Almanac canceled by NPR after a 2018 sex scandal.
“Eros Turannos”
Edward Arlington Robinson
Garrison Keillor (“KEE-ler”) &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
In a novel by this author, the protagonist disassociates from her body by a process she calls “doubling” during her mother’s weekly examination of her virginity. For 10 points each:
Name this Haitian-American author of a novel in which Sophie uses a pestle to break her hymen before leaving her mother; that novel is Breath, Eyes, Memory.
This author wrote a novella in which a bride is returned on her wedding night because she is not a virgin, titled A Chronicle of a Death Foretold. He also wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.
After losing his virginity to Ybón (“ee-BONE”), the title character of Junot Diaz’s (“JOO-noh DEE-azz’s”) novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is taken to one of these settings by the henchmen of Ybón’s boyfriend. A “golden mongoose” guides Oscar’s mother out of this sort of place, where Anabelle works in Danticat’s The Farming of Bones.
Edwidge Danticat (“ed-WEEJ don-tee-KAH”)
Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on partial answer]
cane fields [accept sugarcane fields or sugar plantations; prompt on plantations, farms, or fields] &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;
This character receives a set of gilded pistols as a wedding gift from a friend who delivers a passionate speech at a banquet about this character’s painting of a biblical scene. For 10 points each:
Name this artist whose marriage to Elena escalates Joaquín (“hwah-KEEN”) Montegro’s hatred of him. Joaquín confesses his guilt on his deathbed about grabbing this character’s throat, which triggers a fatal heart attack.
This member of the Spanish Generation of ’98 referred to his book Abel Sánchez: The History of a Passion as a “nivola.” He also wrote The Tragic Sense of Life and Mist.
Unamuno frequently corresponded with José Martí, a national hero of this country. The Generation of ’98 were active during the Spanish-American War, which grew out of this country’s fight for independence from Spain.
Abel Sánchez [accept either underlined name]
Miguel de Unamuno
Cuba &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
At the beginning of this novel, Nüwa sends the evil fox spirit Daji to punish King Zhou (“joe”) for lusting after a temple statue of her. For 10 points each:
Name this Ming-dynasty fantasy novel set during the fall of the Shang dynasty.
In the better-known Ming fantasy novel Journey to the West, this mischievous character, who was imprisoned by the Buddha for eating the Heavenly Peaches, travels to India with the monk Xuanzang (“shwen-dzong”) to obtain sacred texts.
This other character from Journey to the West, who fights with a nine-toothed rake, was reincarnated as a hideous monster after he sexually harassed Chang’e (“chong-UH”).
The Investiture of the Gods [or The Creation of the Gods; or Fengshen Yanyi]
Sun Wukong [or Monkey King; or Songoku]
Pigsy [or Zhu Bajie] &lt;CK, World/Other Literature&gt;
Answer the following about the uproar in the post-war French world of letters over the introduction of Coca Cola, for 10 points each.
An article by Robert Escarpit (“ro-BAIR ess-car-PEE”) for this newspaper titled “Coca-colonization” (“coca CALL-uh-nization”) argued that it represented an attack on the “vulnerable point” of the “national beverage.” This major French newspaper issued a list of 100 Books of the Century in 1999.
While living in Paris, this Hungarian-born writer lamented that the US was able to “force their revolting ‘Coke’ down our throats” because “Europe bought the whole package.” He also wrote the novel Darkness at Noon.
A 1959 novel references the influx of American products into France via this character’s longing for “blewgenes” and “cacocalo.” This character’s uncle Gabriel works as a ballerina dancer at a nightclub.
Le Monde
Arthur Koestler (“KESS-ler”)
Zazie (“zah-ZEE”) (The title character of Zazie in the Metro by Raymond Queneau.) &lt;JB, European Literature&gt;
When he was 56, this poet broke his own hand while punching a young Hemingway in the face. For 10 points each:
Name this American poet who began “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” with the line “Call the roller of big cigars,” and wrote of the title bird “among twenty snowy mountains” in “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
In Death in the Afternoon, Hemingway argued that certain American authors would be better if they weren’t so sexually frustrated. He particularly called out this author who wrote about Mr. Snopes asking for proof from Mr. Harris about the title event in “Barn Burning.”
Hemingway’s bizarrely vicious and one-sided dislike of Ford Madox Ford led him to describe the latter as a “well-clothed, up-ended hogshead” in this memoir about his time as writer living in 1920s Paris.
Wallace Stevens
William Faulkner
A Moveable Feast &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
Peerless Jones helps this character awaken a giant sea urchin that lives in the Earth’s mantle in the story “When the World Screamed.” For 10 points each:
Name this character. He first appeared in a novel narrated by the reporter Edward Malone in which he discovers a land of dinosaurs in the Amazon.
Professor Challenger appears in The Lost World, a novel by this author who created the duo of Dr. Watson and Sherlock Holmes.
In a Sherlock Holmes story, a league for men with this physical attribute mysteriously pays the pawnbroker Jabez (“JAY-bezz”) Wilson 4 pounds a week to copy articles from the Encyclopædia Britannica.
Professor Challenger
Arthur Conan Doyle
red-headed [or red hair or ginger or equivalents; accept “The Red-Headed League”] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
The husband of a character with this maiden name becomes enraged when she breaks a fancy doll’s house against a fence. For 10 points each:
Give this surname. A character whom the protagonist calls “W. C. Tuttle” marries a character with this surname after the latter’s mother interprets the note “I love you and I want to talk to you” as a marriage proposal.
This eleven-fingered man loathes living with his wife Shama in the Tulsi family’s Hanuman House. He suffers setbacks when he tries to build a house of his own, but finally does buy a house shortly before his death.
The characters of V. S. Naipaul’s A House for Mr. Biswas are Trinidadians descended from migrants from this country. An author born in this country, Salman Rushdie, compared Naipaul’s death to that of a “beloved older brother.”
Tulsi [accept Shama Tulsi, Mrs. Tulsi, Owad Tulsi, Shekhar Tulsi, or Padma Tulsi]
Mohun Biswas (“BISH-wus”) [or Mr. Biswas; accept either underlined answer]
India &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
In one of this author’s short stories, Zenchi Naigu is a monk who is fixated on the extreme size of the title body part. For 10 points each:
Name this author of short stories such as “The Nose” and “Hell Screen.” This namesake of Japan’s most prestigious literary award had his story “In a Grove” adapted into the film Rashōmon by Akira Kurosawa.
Another monk with an oversized nose created by Akutagawa is E’in (“EH-een”), who claims that on the third day of the third month, the title creature of this short story will fly into heaven from Sarusawa Pond.
The monk Dosen tutors the stuttering protagonist of this novel by Yukio Mishima in which that protagonist, Mizoguchi, decides to burn the title structure down.
Ryūnosuke Akutagawa
“Dragon: the Old Potter’s Tale” [or “Ryū”]
Temple of the Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji] &lt;JS, World/Other Literature&gt;
In this collection, Johnny-One Arm falls in love with a woman who survived an encounter with a serial killer known as the Granola Cruncher. For 10 points each:
Name this collection presented as a series of transcripts with questions omitted and responses starting with “Q.”
A series of killings in Tucson (“TOO-sawn”), Arizona, inspired this author’s story about Connie’s encounter with the sinister Arnold Friend, titled “Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been.” This prolific novelist and tweeter probably has missed her chance at the Nobel Prize thanks to Bob Dylan’s win in 2016.
A serial killer says that a grandmother would have been a good woman if there “had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life” after murdering Bailie’s family in this story by Flannery O’Connor.
Brief Interviews with Hideous Men (by David Foster Wallace)
Joyce Carol Oates [or JCO]
“A Good Man is Hard to Find” &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
In a novel, a man who fights for the independence of this island murders his former lover Eminé in her sleep, blaming her for causing the death of an abbot and the destruction of a monastery. For 10 points each:
Name this island where a captain is shot in the head while shouting “Freedom or death!” The narrator of a different novel hires a Romanian-born man who he met at a café while reading The Divine Comedy to work as a cook on this island.
Captain Michalis and Zorba the Greek were created by Nikos Kazantzakis, who also wrote novels about a village’s “re-crucifixion” of this religious figure and this figure’s struggle against his “last temptation.”
Zorba cooks for workers in this type of facility. Émile Zola’s novel Germinal describes Étienne Lantier’s (“ay-tee-EN lawn-tee-AY’s”) leadership of a strike of workers in this type of facility.
Crete
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined portion; or Jesus of Nazareth]
coal mines [accept lignite mines] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
A post on this blog describes a conversation in which “Professor Hunk” complains about the “oppression olympics” to a Jewish colleague. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional blog written by Ifemelu, a Nigerian student at Princeton University. Another post on this blog was inspired by the two suitors of a hairdresser at the Trenton salon where Ifemelu has her hair braided.
Ifemelu’s teenage romance with Obinze in Lagos and struggles while at Princeton are outlined in Americanah, a 2013 novel by this Nigerian author of Purple Hibiscus.
In Americanah, one of Ifemelu’s classes discusses the censorship of offensive words in the film adaptation of this Alex Haley novel that describes the enslavement of Kunta Kinte and his descendants in North America.
“Raceteenth” [or “Raceteenth or Various Observations About American Blacks (Those Formerly Known as Negroes) by a Non-American Black”]
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (“uh-DEE-chee-ay”)
Roots &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
In one of this author’s plays, Val arrives in town and falls in love with Lady, but Jabe shoots her and Val is pushed into a burning building by the chief and firemen with hoses. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Orpheus Descending who also used his sister Rose as the model for Laura Wingfield in his play The Glass Menagerie.
A stranger also comes to town in this Mark Twain short story in which that stranger leaves a sack that supposedly contains 40,000 dollars in gold, eventually leading the town to change its motto to “Lead us into temptation.”
In this play, a stranger comes to town and dances with Madge while her younger sister Millie gets drunk on whisky. That stranger, Hal, later has to jump onto a train to avoid the police after the jealous Alan falsely accuses him of stealing.
Tennessee Williams
“The Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg”
Picnic (by William Inge) &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
When Voltaire, a dedicated pen-pal of this king, first met him, he took this king’s pulse “just as if [he] was [this king’s] first physician.” For 10 points each:
Name this Prussian king who stated that the Middle High German epic Nibelungenlied (“nee-buh-LUNG-in-leed”) was “not worth a shot of powder.” This “enlightened” king’s dabbling in the arts also led him to write numerous flute sonatas.
This author, who didn’t get along with Frederick, stated that comparing the Nibelungenlied and the Iliad is a “pernicious endeavor.” One of his characters plays Hamlet in an acting troupe after being rejected by Mariane and realizes that his whole life is an “apprenticeship.”
This poet asserted that a Frenchman can “scarcely get any idea” of the Nibelungenlied. Much of this author’s verse, including “The North Sea” and the rest of his “Buch der Lieder” (“BOOKH dair LEE-duh”), were later set to music.
Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Friedrich II; prompt on Frederick]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (“GUR-tuh”) (The novel is Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship.)
Heinrich Heine (“HY-nuh”) &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
Two characters in this play come up with the name “T. S. Eliot and Pam” for their imaginary band and pretend to search for somebody called “nobody.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Jimmy Porter launches a series of tirades at his wife Alison. Jimmy has an affair with Alison’s friend Helena, but reconciles with Alison by playing the “bear and squirrel game” after she miscarries.
As it depicted the everyday life of a working-class family, John Osborne’s Look Back in Anger pioneered the “kitchen sink” style of this movement, which attempts to present life as it is.
Act I of the play opens with Alison doing this activity, which caused audiences to gasp when the curtain was raised on its opening night. Act III opens nearly identically, but with Helena doing this activity instead.
Look Back In Anger
realism [or realist]
ironing clothes [accept any answer indicating the use of an iron or ironing board] &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
This character is appalled to see a “giggling, dirty-minded creature” crawling on all fours and “hissing like a naughty cat” in pursuit of his fiancée, who is squeaking like a mouse. For 10 points each:
Name this character who appears as a demented old man in a wheelchair in the frame story of a 1979 play in which he begs the title character to “pardon your assassin!”
Peter Shaffer’s play Amadeus was inspired by this Russian Romantic author’s dramatization of the rivalry between Salieri and Mozart. He wrote the play Boris Godunov and the verse novel Eugene Onegin.
At the end of Amadeus, Salieri attempts, and fails, to commit suicide using one of these objects. In August Strindberg’s Miss Julie, the valet Jean (“zhawn”) convinces his lover to commit suicide with this type of object after failing to go through with their elopement.
Antonio Salieri [accept either underlined name]
Alexander Pushkin
shaving razor &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
In one poem, this author recalls when he was held “green and dying” during a period in which his “wishes raced through the house high hay.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of “Fern Hill.” In another poem, this author asks the addressee to “curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears.”
Another Welsh hill features in Thomas’s poem about his “thirtieth year to heaven,” which is titled as a “poem in” this month. This month is also the setting of Yeats’s “The Wild Swans at Coole (“cool”),” which describes how “the water / Mirrors a still sky” under this month’s “twilight.”
In the refrain to his villanelle “Do not go gentle into that good night,” Thomas tells the addressee to do this action “against the dying of the light.”
Dylan Thomas
October
rage &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
In this novel, the protagonist tours Europe and attempts to live in a house with three women before deciding that what he really needs is solitude. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Patrice kills the invalid Roland Zagreus and steals all his money.
Patrice shares this surname with the protagonist of a later novel by the same author, in which that character declares “Mother died today.” This surname titles a 2013 Kamel Daoud novel about Harun, the brother of a man murdered by that character with this name.
Patrice Meursault of A Happy Death and Meursault of The Stranger are both French-Algerian clerks created by this French absurdist, whose nonfiction includes “The Myth of Sisyphus.”
A Happy Death [or La mort heureuse]
Meursault (“murr-SO”) (The novel is The Meursault Investigation.)
Albert Camus &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
The protagonist of a novel is punched in the stomach and conned out of five bucks by a character of this profession named Maurice. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. Iceberg Slim’s autobiography, subtitled “The Story of My Life,” details his experiences working in this profession.
The pimp Mr. Edwards beats his mistress Cathy Ames to a pulp after she reveals her hatred for him in East of Eden, a novel by this American author of The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men.
In this play, Rocky Pioggi vehemently denies that he’s a pimp, and asserts that pimping is just a “side line” apart from his night bartending duties in Harry Hope’s saloon.
pimp [or procurer; or pander] (The character is Holden Caulfield from The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger.)
John Steinbeck
The Iceman Cometh (by Eugene O’Neill) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
This essay’s author states that while reading a certain manuscript in public, “I have often had to close it lest some stranger would see how much it moved me.” For 10 points each:
Name this short essay that concludes by comparing its subject to the children in one of his poems who gather pebbles on the seashore because “they know not how to cast nets.”
Gitanjali was written by this Bengali poet, who also composed the national anthem of India.
In a poem from Gitanjali, the narrator prays, “My Father, let my country awake” into “that heaven of freedom” where the mind is without this quality.
William Butler Yeats’ introduction to Gitanjali (“gee-TAHN-juh-lee”) [prompt on introduction to Gitanjali by asking “who wrote the essay?”; prompt on Yeats’ introduction by asking “to which literary work?”; accept preface, forward, or synonyms in place of “introduction”; accept Song Offerings in place of “Gitanjali”]
Rabindranath Tagore
fear [or bhay] &lt;CK, World/Other Literature&gt;
This story ends with the main character stammering “isn’t life—?” to her brother, who responds, “<em>Isn’t</em> it, darling?” For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Laura Sheridan gazes at the face of her dead neighbor Mr. Scott after leaving the title event to drop off a basket of leftovers as condolences.
This New Zealand-born author’s collection The Garden Party also contains “Miss Brill” and “Bliss.”
The theory that the corpse in “The Garden Party” was inspired by the death of Mansfield’s brother is suggested in No Man’s Land, a book by two feminist literary critics who also wrote the seminal study The Madwoman in the Attic. Name either author.
“The Garden Party”
Katherine Mansfield [or Kathleen Mansfield Murry]
Sandra Gilbert OR Susan Gubar &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
This author wrote a story in which the cowherd Yuhanna has his cattle stolen by a group of monks while he is reading the Bible. For 10 points each:
Name this Lebanese author of an English-language book in which Al-Mustafa, the title prophet, delivers discourses on the nature of life to the citizens of Orphalese (“OR-fuh-leez”).
The title of Gibran’s story about Yuhanna calls him one of these people, one of whom also titles his first English collection of “parables and poems.” A character named for the Arabic word for this sort of person falls in love with Layla in a popular poem by Nizami.
Along with Mikhail Naimy, Gibran led “The Pen League,” an Arab-American literary movement in this city. Around the same time, this city’s neighborhood of Harlem was the focus of an African-American literary movement.
Kahlil Gibran [or Khalil Gibran]
madman [or word forms like mad or madness; or synonyms; accept majnun]
New York City [or NYC] &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
A poem often ascribed to this author is set while the narrator “sleeps alone” at midnight, when “the moon and the Pleiades have set” and “the time is passing.” For 10 points each:
Name this female Greek poet from Lesbos who wrote of an “iridescent-throned” goddess descending in a chariot pulled by sparrows in the “Hymn to Aphrodite.”
A recurring Greek literary tale in which Sappho jumps off a rock into the sea after being rejected by Phaon first appeared in a play by this author. This comedic playwright wrote of the grouchy old man Knemon in Dyskolos.
“The Last Song of Sappho” is a poem from this author’s Canti. This Italian poet’s reflections on the relative merits of Latin and modern Romance languages occupy many pages of his massive set of notes, the Zibaldone (“dzee-ball-DOH-nay”).
Sappho [or Psappha]
Menander [or Menandros]
Giacomo Leopardi &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
<em>Description acceptable</em>. Excerpts from these works intersperse a frame story called <em>Free Women</em> in the novel in which they appear. For 10 points each:
Name this set of fictional works, the “black” one of which details their author’s time in Africa. Their author’s alter ego Ella is the focus of the “yellow” one, whereas the “red” one describes their author’s communist ideals.
In this Iranian-born British author’s novel The Golden Notebook, Anna Wulf attempts to combine her diaries into the title volume. This author also wrote the Canopus in Argos science fiction series.
Lessing was a staunch defender of her friend and mentor Idries Shah, who came under fire for publishing an allegedly fake English translation of this collection of Farsi quatrains by Omar Khayyam.
Anna’s notebooks [or Anna Wulf’s notebooks; or notebooks from The Golden Notebook; prompt on notebooks by asking “please also give the novel in which they appear or their fictional author”; accept journals, diaries, memoirs, logs, or records in place of “notebooks”]
Doris Lessing
the Rubáiyát [or Ruba’iyāt] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
An outlaw in this story roars “keep away from me!” when offered milk by the boy who betrayed him. For 10 points each:
Name this Prosper Mérimée story set in the Corsican maquis (“ma-KEE”) in which the title man shoots his son Fortunato for revealing the hiding place of the wounded criminal Giannetto in exchange for a silver watch.
An essay in W. G. Sebald’s book Campo Santo discusses the violent history of the Corsican maquis in conjunction with this French author’s story “The Legend of Saint Julian the Hospitaller,” which this author collected with “A Simple Heart.”
Prosper Mérimée’s other work includes the novel Carmen, which is titled for a member of this nomadic ethnic group. In Victor Hugo’s Hunchback of Notre Dame, Esmeralda is raised by members of this group.
“Mateo Falcone”
Gustave Flaubert (“flow-BAIR”)
gypsies [or gypsy or Romani] &lt;CK, European Literature&gt;
John Winterstraw describes a shipwrecked boating party encountering enormous crabs and human-shaped plants in this body of water in the novel <em>The Boats of the “Glen Carrig”</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this body of water, the setting of many horror stories by William Hope Hodgson. A novel by Jean Rhys (“jeen reese”) titled for this body of water describes the forced solitary confinement of Antoinette Cosway in an English estate by her unnamed husband.
Jean Rhys wrote Wide Sargasso Sea as a prequel to Charlotte Brontë’s novel titled for this character, a governess who discovers Bertha Mason in Edward Rochester’s attic.
This Ezra Pound poem begins by noting “Your mind and you are our Sargasso Sea.” Its title is the French translation of a T. S. Eliot poem whose title character repeats the refrain, “I shall sit here, serving tea to friends.”
Sargasso Sea [accept Sargasso Sea Stories or Wide Sargasso Sea]
Jane Eyre [accept either underlined name]
“Portrait d’une Femme” (“por-TRAY dune FAM”) [do not accept or prompt on “Portrait of a Lady”] &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
A queen whose husband dies during a lion hunt teaches this character about the <em>grun-tu-molani</em>, the inner desire to live. For 10 points each:
Name this character who builds a bomb to kill all the frogs in a reservoir that ends up also destroying the reservoir itself. He later earns his title nickname, “the Rain King,” after he carries and whips a huge statue.
Saul Bellow’s novel Henderson the Rain King often attracts comparisons to this Miguel Cervantes novel, whose character of Sancho Panzo resembles Henderson’s guide Romilayu.
More explicit references to Don Quixote, such as a Scottish terrier named Dulcinea, appear in this Puerto Rican author’s Spanglish novel Yo-Yo Boing!
Eugene Henderson [accept Henderson the Rain King; prompt on Sungo]
Don Quixote
Giannina Braschi &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
After using a ladder connected to one of these structures for the second time in his life, a character cries upon smelling autumn fragrances and observing constellations above him. For 10 points each:
Name this type of structure. A character who thinks of himself as a “legendary figure” nicknames a series of these structures that he sees through “a cartographer’s eye” after his wife Lucinda.
Neddy Merrill swims through his neighbors’ suburban pools in “The Swimmer,” a story by this author. This Pulitzer-winning “Chekhov of the suburbs” also wrote a novel series about the Wapshots.
Cheever published “The Swimmer” and many of his other stories in this Manhattan-based magazine. Condé Nast publishes this magazine, whose covers often depict Eustace Tilley.
swimming pools [accept specific pools like the Westerhazys’ pool or the Grahams’ pool]
John Cheever
The New Yorker &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
Glow-worms dramatically light a dice game played in the “soft juicy vegetation” of this place that is punctuated by the repeated appearance of a herd of “cropper” ponies. For 10 points each:
Name this place that is inhabited by workers whose “Tartarean” labor of carrying bundles of furze is repeatedly described in a novel in which a man who formerly worked as a diamond merchant in Paris upsets his new wife by taking up work as a furze-cutter here.
Egdon Heath, the setting of The Return of the Native, is also mentioned in this other novel by Thomas Hardy, in which a portion of it is owned by a family to whom the title girl believes she may be related, the d’Urbervilles.
In Hardy’s The Return of the Native, the heath residents celebrate Guy Fawkes Day with a massive bonfire of furze atop Rainbarrow Hill. Guy Fawkes Day also appears in this other Victorian author’s novel The Way of All Flesh, in which it prompts Ernest’s classmates to burn his father in effigy.
Egdon Heath [accept the heath in The Return of the Native; prompt on the heath alone by asking “from what novel?”]
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
Samuel Butler &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
This poem mocks its dedicatee Richard Howard by challenging him to “comb” “learned journals” for the name of a “minor lion attending on Gérôme” who painted an Oriental harem. For 10 points each:
Name this James Merrill poem in which a young boy assembles a jigsaw puzzle with the guidance of a “Mademoiselle, / In real life a widow since Verdun.”
In the poem, a puzzle piece shaped like one of these objects reminds the protagonist of a Paul Valéry poem. A different poem about a “boy too far from town to learn baseball” claims, “one could do worse than be a swinger” of these objects.
The poem’s protagonist wonders “how much of the sun-ripe original” Valéry poem this author “made himself forgo” in his German translation, which is quoted in the poem’s epigraph. This author wrote The Duino Elegies.
“Lost in Translation”
trees [accept specific types like birch trees or palm trees] (The poem is “Birches” by Robert Frost.)
Rainer Maria Rilke (“RILL-kuh”) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
This character is disturbed while praying “with an expression of profound piety” in a cathedral by an official who is himself distracted by a girl in a white dress. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is seen exiting a carriage with a sheathed sword and wearing a gold-braided uniform with a collar that obscures his face. The story begins with a barber finding this character in a loaf of bread and throwing him in a river.
Major Kovalyov’s nose falls off in a short story by this 19th-century Russian author, who also wrote “The Overcoat” and the novel Dead Souls.
In this Gogol story, a witch forces the philosophy student Khoma to carry her and chant hymns over her corpse. He later dies in fright of the fiends summoned by the title demon, who has eyelids that touch the floor.
Major Kovalyov’s nose
Nikolai Gogol
“Viy” (“vee”) &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
Answer the following about everyone’s favorite element, “Good Old Neon.” For 10 points each:
The narrator of this author’s story “Good Old Neon” recounts the motives behind his suicide by crashing his car in rural Illinois. This footnote enthusiast also wrote the essay “Consider the Lobster” and novel Infinite Jest.
At age 16, this author wrote The Neon Bible, which recounts David’s adolescence in rural Mississippi. This author wrote about a Boethius-loving hot dog vendor in New Orleans in his novel The Confederacy of Dunces.
This lover of Simone de Beauvoir wrote about lower-class characters’ struggles in Chicago in his collection Neon Wilderness, which includes stories like “How the Devil Came Down Division Street.”
David Foster Wallace
John Kennedy Toole
Nelson Algren &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
One of the best-known poems in this language expresses the speaker’s love for things like the “enervating perfume of flowers” before stating “but most of all I love my brother, man.” For 10 points each:
Name this language of songs collected in a 16th-century book titled for the “Ballads of the Lords.” A system developed in this language inspired a poem that states “I travel through your waist as through a river.”
Octavio Paz, an author from this country, wrote the aforementioned poem “Sun Stone,” whose cyclical structure is inspired by a Nahuatl-language calendar developed by one of this country’s pre-Columbian civilizations.
Paz and Eliot Weinberg wrote a book presenting “nineteen ways” of translating the poem “Deer Park” from this language. A popular anthology of 300 poems in this language includes “Song of the Wagons.”
Classical Nahuatl [prompt on the Aztec language]
Mexico
Classical Chinese [or Middle Chinese; or Literary Chinese; or Zhōngwén; accept specific modern vernaculars like Mandarin Chinese or Cantonese] (“Deer Park” is by Wáng Wéi, and “Song of the Wagons” is by Dù Fǔ.) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
A character in this play writes charming memoirs for minor royals, though Princess Palliatani dies before her memoir is finished. For 10 points each:
Name this Noël Coward play that features the psychic Madame Arcati, who uses séances (“SAY-on-sizz”) to bring back the ghosts of Ruth and Elvira in Charles Condomine’s house.
In Blithe Spirit, Madame Arcati references this other play when she claims “There are more things in heaven and earth, Mrs. Condomine, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.” This play’s title character gives the “To be or not to be” speech.
To maintain her strength after séances, Madame Arcati frequently munches on these specific food items that Ruth made. In The Importance of Being Earnest, Lane cannot buy ingredients for making this food, despite Aunt Augusta specifically asking for some.
Blithe Spirit
Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet: Prince of Denmark]
cucumber sandwiches [prompt on partial answers] &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
In a story by this author, a Polish-born librarian with a photographic memory is sent to an internment camp for writing a letter to the editor of a French magazine. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose only novel was Beware of Pity. In this author’s novella Amok, a doctor commits suicide by jumping off the deck of an Indonesian ship while clutching the coffin of a woman who asked him for an abortion.
In another Zweig story, Dr. B plays this game against himself in isolation so many times that he develops two distinct personalities called “Black” and “White” and hears an inner voice that screams “Check!” and “Mate!”
Zweig’s novella Confusion details Roland’s idolatry of an unnamed person with this profession. In All Quiet on the Western Front, Mittelstadt mocks the uniform of a person with this profession named Kantorek who refers to the protagonist and his friends as the “Iron Youth.”
Stefan Zweig
chess [or Schach; accept “A Chess Story”; prompt on The Royal Game]
professor [or teacher; or schoolmaster] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
In a short story, the Parisian writer Garcín opens the cage of a bird described by this adjective before shooting himself to avoid working in his family’s shop. For 10 points each:
Give either the original Spanish or English translation of this adjective. A Spanish-language collection titled for this adjective contains works like “The Bourgeois King” and “The Lyric Year” and opens with an epigraph by Victor Hugo describing art with this adjective.
This Nicaraguan author’s collection Azul… kickstarted the modernismo movement of Hispanic literature in the late 19th century.
In a story from Azul…, four men are gifted a blue veil of dreams by Mab, the queen of these mythical beings. Edmund Spenser’s epic poem about Gloriana is titled for the queen of these beings.
blue [or azul; or azur; accept “The Blue Bird” or “El pájaro azul”]
Rubén Darío
fairies [or fairy; accept The Faerie Queene] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
In a poem titled for one of these animals, the speaker notes “Something else is alive” in the “midnight moment’s forest” that they are imagining. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of animal, one of which enters “the dark hole of the head” in a Ted Hughes poem that analogizes thought to one of these animals. In Chaucer’s Nun’s Priest’s Tale, which is based on the Reynard cycle, Chanticleer is almost abducted by one of these animals.
Another Ted Hughes poem mentions the “Continual wars and wives” that have battered one of these animals belonging to Esther. One of these animals proposes marriage to an owl in an Edward Lear poem.
The narrator of this novel clumsily repeats a joke about what Ted Hughes will do when he runs out of animals to write about. Tony reflects on the suicide of Adrian Finn in this Julian Barnes novel.
foxes [accept “The Thought Fox”]
cats [or tomcat; or pussy-cat; accept “Esther’s Tomcat” or “The Owl and the Pussy-Cat”]
The Sense of an Ending &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
This poem states that “Every moon is atrocious and every sun bitter” while describing the speaker as “swollen… with intoxication torpor.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that describes “unbelievable Florida’s mingling with flowers panther’s eyes and human skin.”
“The Drunken Boat” is by this French poet who quit poetry at age 21 to pursue a career in gun-running and, allegedly, slave trading in Africa.
Rimbaud’s A Season in Hell declares that this virtue is the “key… to that ancient party where I might find my appetite once more.” Alfred de Musset (“mew-SAY”) called this virtue “gold without pity,” and the cliché that it “begins at home” is often misattributed to the playwright Terence.
“The Drunken Boat” [or “Le Bateau ivre”]
Arthur Rimbaud (“ar-TOOR ram-BOH”)
charity [accept “charity begins at home”] &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
One pill used to cure this disorder also causes its user to believe that words said around them are actual objects, like “falling airplane.” For 10 points each:
Name this disorder. To receive an experimental drug for it, Babette repeatedly has an affair with the pseudonymous Mr. Gray.
Babette takes the experimental drug Dylar to treat her fear of death in this novel, in which her husband Jack pioneers the academic field of Hitler Studies.
White Noise is a novel by this postmodern American author, who described the life of Lee Harvey Oswald in his novel Libra and wrote Underworld and Mao II.
fear of death [or thanatophobia; accept equivalents like fear of dying or being scared of death; prompt on fear or similar answers]
White Noise
Don DeLillo &lt;VS, American Literature&gt;
The narrator of a poem repeatedly exclaims, “I don’t want to see” the body of one of these people who “looked for dawn” though “the dawn was no more.” For 10 points each:
Name this type of person whose death due to “wounds [that] burned like suns” occurs “at five in the afternoon” in a poem whose narrator “sings his elegance with a whimper of words.”
“Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” is an elegy written by this Spanish author. This author’s other works include the plays Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba.
This English youth, the title character of a semi-autobiographical narrative poem by Lord Byron, watches a bull killed by a matador in Cádiz, one of the stops of the title “pilgrimage” he undertakes across Europe.
bullfighter [or matador de toros; or torero; or toreador; accept “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter”; prompt on “Llanto por Ignacio Sánchez Mejías” by asking “which is an elegy for a person of what profession?”; prompt on Ignacio Sánchez Mejías by asking “who was of what profession?”]
Federico García Lorca [prompt on partial answer]
Childe Harold [accept Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
An example of this type of religious literature is <em>Mere Christianity</em>, which advances a “trilemma” claiming that one cannot accept Jesus merely as a moral teacher because he must be a lunatic, God, or the Devil. For 10 points each:
Name this type of religious literature that argues in defense of Christian doctrines. An early example of this type of literature was Against Celsus by Origen, which refuted the arguments of the namesake pagan philosopher.
Mere Christianity was written by this British author who also wrote the apologetic novel The Screwtape Letters. He also incorporated Christian themes into his children’s series, The Chronicles of Narnia.
This saint and early apologist directed his First Apology toward Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius. That apology argued that Greek philosophers possessed the “seeds of the logos,” but not the full logos of Christ.
Christian apologetics [or apology or apologies or apologia]
C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
St. Justin Martyr [prompt on Justin] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
Helen, a character in this novel, has her dreams of becoming a concert pianist destroyed when her father commits suicide and she can no longer attend Vassar. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Francis sees the ghosts of people from his past, including the son he accidentally dropped and killed, while wandering the streets of Albany.
In William Kennedy’s novel Ironweed, Helen “knows all about” Lily Bart, a character from this Edith Wharton novel, in which Lily’s fall from New York high society is caused by her debt to Gus Trenor.
Helen is also mentioned to have read Daisy Miller, a novella by this author of The Ambassadors and The Turn of the Screw.
Ironweed
The House of Mirth
Henry James &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
In a short story, a man tells the protagonist, “nothing you’ll ever need to worry about,” when she asks about the meaning of a box in one of these images in a copy of <em>The Economist</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of image depicted on stained glass in a room visited by the main characters of that short story, in which Miranda hears her lover’s voice bounce “wildly off the glass, sometimes loud, sometimes soft” in it.
Imagery of maps and atlases reoccurs in “Sexy,” a short story in this collection by Jhumpa Lahiri. Its title story features Mr. Kapasi, an aspiring translator who fantasizes about Mrs. Das as he guides her family on a tour in India.
“Sexy,” and several other short stories in the collection, are set in this US state. Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter portrays Hester Prynne’s punishment for adultery during this state’s colonial era.
world maps [accept Mapparium]
The Interpreter of Maladies
Massachusetts &lt;WC, World/Other Literature&gt;
The first part of this work concludes with the elderly John Henry Newman only being able to exclaim “Oh, no! No!” when approached by an admiring curate (“CURE-it”). For 10 points each:
Name this work by Lytton Strachey (“LIT-un STRAY-chee”) that includes biographies of Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, Thomas Arnold, and Charles George Gordon, the four title representatives of their age.
This earlier author included essays on twenty-five men whom he believed exemplified their time, including Jeremy Bentham, Lord Byron, and William Wordsworth, in his book The Spirit of the Age.
The Victorian-era Dictionary of National Biography is currently updated and published by this university, whose massive English Dictionary was compiled over the course of 70 years starting in 1857.
Eminent Victorians
William Hazlitt
Oxford University [accept Oxford English Dictionary] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
This group of people are “dazzled” by “rings sparkling with magnificent emeralds” and “elegant canes / beautifully worked in silver and gold.” For 10 points each:
Name this group of people “due here today” who “are bored by rhetoric and public speaking” in a poem that describes them as “a kind of solution.”
In the drama The Persians, this author describes how “terror fell” upon Xerxes and the rest of the namesake “barbarian” race at the hands of the Greeks. This ancient Greek tragedian also wrote the Oresteia.
In a poem from the collection Jadis et naguère (“zhah-DEESE ay nah-GAIR”), this French poet wrote of an “Empire in decline” “that sees the tall, fair-haired Barbarians fall.” Claude Debussy took the name of “Clair de lune” from a poem by this author of the collection Poèmes saturniens.
barbarians [or barbárous; or varvárous] (The poem is “Waiting for the Barbarians” by Constantine Cavafy.)
Aeschylus
Paul Verlaine (“vair-LEN”) &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
This object’s owner tells it to “take me to where there is luck!” For 10 points each:
Name this object. A character repeatedly shouts “It’s Malabar!” before he falls off of this object and dies in a story titled for it.
“The Rocking-Horse Winner” is a short story by this British author of novels such as Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
In Lawrence’s story “The Virgin and the Gypsy,” the first title character, Yvette, is saved from dying in this manner by Joe Boswell. Maggie and her brother Tom die in this manner while locked in embrace in a George Eliot novel.
Paul’s rocking horse [accept “The Rocking-Horse Winner”; prompt on a toy horse]
D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]
drowning in a flood [accept synonyms or word forms; accept equivalents of dying in a flood] &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
In an essay, this author described how existentialist hipsters, whom he calls “philosophical psychopaths,” “absorbed” the “existentialist synapses” of black men after World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the essay “The White Negro.” A novel by this author intentionally uses the euphemism “fug” in its depiction of an American regiment’s invasion of the fictional Filipino island Anopopei.
This author and friend of Mailer criticized Mailer’s use of the language of “deprived Negroes” to justify his ideas. This author of Go Tell it on the Mountain also wrote the essay collection Notes of a Native Son.
Mailer’s description of jazz as the “music of orgasm” prefigures this author’s injunction to write “in accordance with laws of orgasm,” a technique that this author equated with that of jazz musicians in his manifesto “Essentials of Spontaneous Prose.”
Norman Mailer (The novel is The Naked and the Dead.)
James Baldwin
Jack Kerouac &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
The title character of one of this author’s plays works with the Cauliflower Trust to expand his cauliflower empire. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui. This playwright’s other anti-Nazi works include a set of 24 short plays titled Fear and Misery of the Third Reich.
Arturo Ui fictionalizes Hitler as a gangster from this country, where Brecht lived during World War II. Brecht’s epic theater style was influenced by a film from this country, Charlie Chaplin’s The Gold Rush.
In a vignette from Fear and Misery of the Third Reich, X and Y read a work by this man before realizing they must denounce it as a “typical piece of misplaced Jewish ingenuity.” A spy who pretends to think he’s this man attempts to recruit Möbius to the Soviet Union in another play.
Bertolt Brecht
United States of America [or United States of America; or USA]
Albert Einstein (The second play is Friedrich Dürrenmatt’s The Physicists.) &lt;VS, European Literature&gt;
This author wrote a story in which a man hides inside of the title piece of furniture so that women will sit on him. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese author of “The Human Chair.” This author with an Edgar Allan Poe-inspired pen name is best known for his stories featuring the detective Kogoro Akechi.
Ranpo wrote an essay comparing Edgar Allan Poe to this other western literary figure, the author of Great Expectations and David Copperfield.
This other Japanese author studied in the United Kingdom at the turn of the 20th century, later returning to Japan to become a professor of English literature. He wrote about the English teacher Squash, the head school teacher Red Shirt, and the title math teacher in Botchan (“BOAT-chahn”).
Edogawa Ranpo [or Edogawa Rampo; or Taro Hirai]
Charles Dickens (The essay is “Dickens vs. Poe.”)
Natsume Sōseki [or Natsume Kinnosuke] &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;
Chicago construction worker Marc Smith is credited with inventing this genre of poetry, which is often associated with New York’s Nuyorican Poets Café. For 10 points each:
Name this poetry genre in which poems are read aloud by their authors and then judged by the audience.
This author won the first ever Grand Poetry Slam at the Nuyorican Poets Café. He wrote about a narrator who attempts to reintroduce slavery in suburban Los Angeles in his 2015 novel The Sellout.
The founders of the Nuyorican Poets Café include Ntozake Shange (“EN-toh-zah-kee SHON-gay”), who wrote a choreopoem whose female characters, each dressed in different colors, represent one of these natural phenomena.
slam poetry [prompt on spoken word poetry]
Paul Beatty
rainbow &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
Since these poets were massive Ben Jonson fans, they are sometimes called the “Tribe of Ben.” For 10 points each:
Name these poets that included Robert Herrick and Richard Lovelace. Their name refers to the fact that they supported Charles I during the English Civil War.
The Cavalier poet Richard Lovelace’s experience of fighting for Charles I in the Bishops’ Wars informed his poem “To Lucasta,” which ends with the speaker declaring, “I could not love thee, dear, so much, / Loved I not [this concept] more.”
This Cavalier poet depicted Apollo presiding over a meeting of poets who debate who should be bestowed with a laurel wreath in his poem “A Session of the Poets,” but he is best-known for the lyrics in his play Aglaura.
Cavalier poets
honor
John Suckling &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
In one of this author’s novels, Xu Sanguan (“shoo san-gwen”) discovers that his first son, Yile (“yee-luh”), is illegitimate. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Chronicle of a Blood Merchant. He wrote a novel about Xu Fugui (“shoo foo-gway”), who survives the Cultural Revolution after gambling away his father’s fortune in To Live.
This poet “translated” a poem by Li Bai that begins while the speaker’s “hair was still cut straight across [her] forehead”; that poem is “The River Merchant’s Wife.”
In The Plum in the Golden Vase, Ximen Qing (“shee-mun cheeng”) is a wealthy merchant who first appeared in this other classical Chinese novel, about Song Jiang (“sung j’yong”) and his band of 108 outlaws.
Yu Hua [or Hua Yu]
Ezra Pound
Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or All Men Are Brothers; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Tale of the Marshes; or Men of the Marshes; or The Marshes of Mount Liang] &lt;JS, World/Other Literature&gt;
In his youth, this character is “one of those boys for whom a motorbike is the most compelling model of the universe.” For 10 points each:
Name this German businessman who saves Polish Jews from a concentration camp operated by Amon Goeth in a 1982 novel. That novel was adapted by Steven Spielberg as a film titled for this character’s “List.”
This Australian author fictionalized the deeds of Oskar Schindler during the Holocaust in his novel Schindler’s Ark.
This other World War II novel by an Australian writer follows Dorrigo Evans’s time in a Japanese POW camp. It won its author, Richard Flanagan, the 2014 Man Booker Prize.
Oskar Schindler [accept Schindler’s Ark or Schindler’s List]
Thomas Keneally (“kuh-NEEL-ee”)
The Narrow Road to the Deep North &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
In a novel, a butterfly lands on the coffin of Rufus’s father, who dies in this manner soon after Rufus’s great-aunt buys Rufus a cap. For 10 points each:
Name this manner in which Jay Follett dies in James Agee’s novel A Death in the Family. In a J. G. Ballard novel, Dr. Robert Vaughan oversees a group of people who are sexually aroused by dying in this manner.
In this F. Scott Fitzgerald novel, Daisy Buchanan strikes and kills Myrtle Wilson while driving a car owned by the title character.
In this author’s novel The Shipping News, Quoyle’s newspaper articles cover fabricated car accidents. This author wrote about the relationship between two young men on a Wyoming sheep farm in “Brokeback Mountain.”
dying in a car accident [accept car crash or automotive accident in place of “car accident”; prompt on dying in a collision or crash or accident by asking “involving what objects?”; do not accept “airplane crash” or “train crash”] (The novel is Crash.)
The Great Gatsby
E. Annie Proulx (“proo”) [or Edna Annie Proulx] &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
In this novel, Sariette (“sar-YET”), the curator of the d’Esparvieu (“dess-par-VIEW”) family library, goes insane after he murders his friend Père Guinardon (“pair ghee-nar-DON”) to steal a lost <em>Lucretius</em> once owned by the Prior de Vendôme (“von-DOME”). For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Arcade (“ar-KAHD”) abandons his ward Maurice d’Esparvieu in his quest to overthrow God, whom Arcade considers to be a “vain and ignorant demiurge.”
The Revolt of the Angels was written by this French author who also wrote a novel featuring a mass baptism of penguins who are subsequently transformed into men, Penguin Island.
In the last chapter, this character tells the rebellious angels to destroy ignorance and fear in themselves instead of revolting. In Milton’s Paradise Lost, this character declares, “Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heaven.”
The Revolt of the Angels [or La Révolte des anges]
Anatole France [or François-Antoine Thibault]
Satan [or the Devil] &lt;WC, European Literature&gt;
At the end of a play by this author, the title character is sentenced by Aeacus to shake dice in a bottomless box forever, until Caligula appears, claims him as a slave, and gives him as a gift to Aeacus. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Pumpkinification of the Divine Claudius. This author also wrote the Moral Epistles, a series of 124 letters addressed to his friend Lucilius.
Seneca’s Pumpkinification is one of the few surviving examples of the “Menippean” type of this genre. The strain of this genre developed by Juvenal focuses on comically mocking social evils.
Seneca also wrote this moral essay, in which he notes, “It is not that we have a short space of time, but that we waste much of it.” It criticizes the “engrossed” whose pleasures leave them in busy idleness instead of leisure.
Seneca the Younger [or Lucius Annaeus Seneca]
satire [accept more specific answers that mention satire]
On the Shortness of Life [or De brevitate vitae] &lt;WC, World/Other Literature&gt;
This poem personifies the “darker, older America” as a woman whose “voice had the gutturals of machine guns / across khaki deserts where the cactus flower / detonates like grenades.” For 10 points each:
Name this title poem of a 1979 collection by Derek Walcott that describes the “scorching wind of a scream” produced by the oppressed peoples of the Caribbean, which is dotted with the title ubiquitous trees.
Derek Walcott wrote this epic poem, a loose reinterpretation of the Iliad starring the fishermen Achille and Hector.
In his poem titled for “A Far Cry from” this continent, Walcott articulated his dilemma as a multiracial poet from the Caribbean by asking how he can choose between this continent “and the English tongue I love?”
“The Star-Apple Kingdom”
Omeros
Africa &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
In a play by this author, a family whose members constantly compare themselves to the string of a “broken necklace” suddenly move in to the apartment of a bachelor. For 10 points each:
Name the author of that play, Friends, who wrote the screenplay for Hiroshi Teshigahara’s adaptation of his novel The Woman in the Dunes.
This writer imagined Mary McCarthy and Lillian Hellman reuniting in hell in her first stage play, Imaginary Friends. This author of the screenplays for When Harry Met Sally… and Sleepless in Seattle died before the premiere of her play Lucky Guy.
This English playwright wrote about a recently widowed man’s role in breaking up his social group in his play Absent Friends. This “master of farce” is better known for plays like Absurd Person Singular.
Kobo Abe
Nora Ephron
Alan Ayckbourn &lt;Drama&gt;
The protagonist of this story learns the English method of washing wool golf socks without shrinking them, and eventually opens an empire of laundry shops across the Midwest. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Dexter Green becomes infatuated with Judy Jones while working as a caddy at the Sherry Island Golf Club.
“Winter Dreams” appears in the collection All the Sad Young Men by this author of The Great Gatsby.
Charlie Wales travels from Prague to Paris in an attempt to regain custody of his daughter Honoria in a Fitzgerald story titled for this city “Revisited.” John travels to the Place of the Gods in a post-apocalyptic story titled for this city.
“Winter Dreams”
F. Scott Fitzgerald
Babylon [accept “Babylon Revisited”;accept “By the Waters of Babylon” by Stephen Vincent Benet] &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
In a novel by this author, Wistan slays Querig, a dragon whose breath suppresses memories, which enables the elderly couple Beatrice and Axl to remember their dead son. For 10 points each:
Name this winner of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature who explored Arthurian mythology in The Buried Giant, which is wildly different from his other novels, such as The Remains of the Day.
In Mark Twain’s A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court, Hank Morgan goes back in time and is almost immediately captured and sentenced to burn at the stake, but he saves his own life by predicting one of these events.
While searching for his lost wife Dame Lisa, the title pawnbroker of this James Branch Cabell novel has an affair with Queen Guinevere as she is awaiting her marriage to King Arthur.
Kazuo Ishiguro
solar eclipse
Jurgen, A Comedy of Justice &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This goddess presided over a pissing contest between the booksellers Curll and Chetham, which Chetham won by streaming a burning arc over his own head while his opponent splashed his own face. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who crowns either Lewis Theobald or Colley Cibber, respectively, as her new king in the three- or four-book edition of a mock-heroic poem.
As repayment for being saved by Cibber from being crushed by an overweight prostitute at a brothel, this poet of “The Rape of the Lock” cast him as the “King of Dulness” in The Dunciad.
Because he is found to be “mature in dullness from his tender years,” Thomas Shadwell is appointed successor to a mediocre English poet in this mock-heroic poem by John Dryden.
Dulness
Alexander Pope
“MacFlecknoe” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
The title character of a 2003 novel brings up one of these beings as an example of what she believes in, while being interrogated by a panel of judges at a prison camp deliberating her entry into the afterlife. For 10 points each:
Identify these beings whose appearances in the writings of “the philosophers” and “the poets” are the subject of a metafictional novella styled as a pair of guest lectures delivered by the author’s alter ego Elizabeth Costello.
The protagonist of this novel by the same author develops compassion for the dogs that he euthanizes at Bev Shaw’s animal shelter, where he works after being forced to resign as an English professor after sleeping with a student.
This South African writer expressed his concern for animal welfare throughout novels such as The Lives of Animals, Elizabeth Costello, The Life &amp; Times of Michael K, and Disgrace.
animals [anti-prompt (ask “can you be less specific?”) on frogs]
Disgrace
J. M. Coetzee [or John Maxwell Coetzee] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
When this character’s love interest accepts his marriage proposal, he becomes so absurdly, deliriously happy, that he wanders the winter streets without a coat, neglects to sleep or eat for days, and finally oafishly arrives late to his own wedding after forgetting to clean his shirt. For 10 points each:
Name this character who had earlier devoted himself to farming his property after being initially rejected by Kitty.
Levin is an autobiographical portrait of this Russian author, who made him the co-protagonist of his novel Anna Karenina.
Later in the novel, Levin attends a disappointing orchestral adaptation of this play in a scene that expresses Tolstoy’s own distaste for this play’s “mirthless jokes” and “coldly pompous, artificial ravings.”
Konstantin Dmitrich Levin [any of these three names is fine, but reveal the answer as Levin if it’s missed]
Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
King Lear &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
In the 1920s, an essayist from this country argued that notions of ethnic superiority could be transcended through the development of a “cosmic race.” For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Jose Vasconcelos. In The Book of Lamentations, Rosario Castellanos (“kah-stay-YAH-nos”) fictionalized an indigenous revolt during the creation of ejidos in this country.
In an essay, Castellanos argued that this woman represents either a “traitor” or a “foundress” in modern-day thought. Elena Garro’s short story “Blame the Tlaxcaltecs” (“t’loss-CALL-tex”) is a modern retelling of this woman’s narrative.
This husband of Elena Garro wrote about Mexican identity in an essay about “The Sons of La Malinche,” which appears in his book The Labyrinth of Solitude. His poetry collection Sunstone was inspired by the Aztec calendar.
Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
La Malinche [or Malinalli, Malintzin, or Doña Marina]
Octavio Paz &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
A symbol from <em>The Great Gatsby</em> was inspired by this poem’s reference to “gaz[ing] forever / On that green light that lingers in the west.” For 10 points each:
Name this “conversation poem” whose speaker hopes that the omen of the new moon with “the old Moon in her lap” from the “Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens” might “startle this dull pain, and make it move and live!”
This Romantic poet of “Dejection: An Ode” contributed “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” to the collaborative volume Lyrical Ballads.
Later in the poem, Coleridge recalls a time when “all misfortunes were but as the stuff / Whence” this faculty “made me dreams of happiness.” In Biographia Literaria, Coleridge distinguishes this artificial association of memories and emotions from the higher creative ability of Imagination.
“Dejection: An Ode”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
fancy &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
Answer the following about the Argentinian woman of letters Victoria Ocampo. For 10 points each:
Ocampo is best known for founding this literary journal, which carried translations of Western philosophy through José Ortega y Gasset’s Revista de Occidente, and published authors from across South America.
Ocampo’s close relationship with this poet following his travels to Argentina in the 1920s led her to publish a book titled for him “in the ravines of San Isidro.” This Bengali poet of the Gitanjali later dedicated his collection Purabi to Ocampo.
Ocampo translated this British author’s unfinished memoir The Mint into Spanish. After meeting this man’s widow, Sarah Junner, Ocampo wrote a literary biography of him, examining books like his Seven Pillars of Wisdom.
Sur
Rabindranath Tagore
Thomas Edward Lawrence [or Lawrence of Arabia] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
In the final scene from this series, its narrator tears pages one by one out of a red notebook in which each sentence cancels out the sentence before it. For 10 points each:
Name this series of novels. Its narrator follows Peter Stillman and notices that the first fifteen letters of the streets he takes spell out the phrase “The Tower of Babel.”
A character named “Paul Auster” in Paul Auster’s New York Trilogy studies the authorship of this novel. In a story by Borges, a line-by-line recreation of this novel by Cervantes is judged to be superior to the original.
The final novel of The New York Trilogy is titled for this convention in detective fiction, in which it is seemingly impossible for a perpetrator to have both committed a murder and escaped the scene of the crime.
The New York Trilogy (by Paul Auster)
Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Nobleman Sir Quixote of La Mancha; or El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quijote de la Mancha]
The Locked Room [or locked room mystery] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This dramatist collaborated with the composer Dominic Kanza for a play set in Mama Nadi’s brothel in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary American playwright who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2009 for that play, Ruined, as well as in 2017 for the play Sweat.
Nottage’s Sweat is set in a highly impoverished city in this American state. August Wilson set a cycle of ten plays, including Fences and The Piano Lesson, in this state.
This garbageman and ex-baseball player attempts to prevent his son Cory from playing pro football and has an affair with Alberta in August Wilson’s Fences.
Lynn Nottage
Pennsylvania (Sweat is set in Reading, Pennsylvania.)
Troy Maxson [accept either name] &lt;Drama&gt;
<em>Note: exact answer required for the first bonus part.</em> This person is said to know that “I had wrought hard to extirpate from my soul the germs of love there detected; and now, at the first renewed view of him, they spontaneously arrived, green and strong!” For 10 points each:
Identify this person who is told “I married him” at the start of the last chapter of an 1847 novel.
The title character of this Charlotte Brontë novel tells the reader that she married Mr. Rochester.
Jane Eyre earlier asks the reader: “do you know, as I do, what terror those cold people can put into the ice of their questions?” when this clergyman, her cousin, asks her if she won’t marry him.
the reader [or “Reader, I married him”; do not accept or prompt on anything else]
Jane Eyre
St. John (“SIN jun”) Eyre Rivers [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
The opening sentence of this novel calls its setting “a poem, a stink, a grating noise, a quality of light, a tone, a habit, a nostalgia, a dream.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose loose plot concerns the efforts of Mac and his band of misfits to throw a party for the marine biologist Doc.
This author painted a portrait of his native California in such novels as Cannery Row and The Grapes of Wrath.
A significant chunk of the narrative of Cannery Row, such as it is, is spent describing the journey of Mac and the boys to collect these items, which the grocer Lee Chong accepts in exchange for supplies for Doc’s party.
Cannery Row
John Steinbeck
frogs &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
A short story collection by this author opens with an account of his unsuccessful search for a volume that he read as a child, referred to only as “The Book.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of that collection, Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass. This author of The Street of Crocodiles was a Polish Jew who was murdered during World War II.
This American author physically cut out sections of Schulz’s The Street of Crocodiles to create his 2010 “book sculpture” Tree of Codes. This author of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close wrote about a Polish shtetl in his novel Everything Is Illuminated.
Schulz’s story “Father’s Last Escape” ends with the narrator’s dad turning into a “crablike insect,” in a reference to the opening of this author’s novella The Metamorphosis.
Bruno Schulz
Jonathan Safran Foer
Franz Kafka &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
The conservative senator Baron Courtin embezzles money from a charitable home for Catholic girls in this author’s play Le Foyer. For 10 points each:
Name this French man of letters who detailed the experiences of the servant Célestine in his Diary of a Chambermaid. He portrayed the greedy businessman Isidore Lechat in his 1903 play Business is Business.
Mirbeau’s drama falls mostly into the “comedy of manners” style of this earlier French playwright of The Misanthrope and Tartuffe.
As the literary critic at Le Figaro, Mirbeau’s praise of this Belgian symbolist playwright’s 1890 work Princess Maleine was instrumental in launching this man’s career. He also wrote Pelléas and Mélisande.
Octave Mirbeau
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
Maurice Maeterlinck
This practice “rusteth the chisel” and also “rusteth the craft and the craftsman.” For 10 points each:
Name this practice denoted by a Latin-language word that ensures no man “hath… a house of good stone” or “a painted paradise on his church wall,” according to Canto XLV (“45”), which mentions it 21 times.
“With usura” is one of the most frequently anthologized sections of this fascist American poet’s Cantos.
The equally popular first section of the Cantos, which begins “And then went down to the ship,” is narrated by this man. In an earlier poem, this mythological figure yearns to “follow knowledge like a sinking star, / Beyond the utmost bound of human / thought.”
usura [or usury]
Ezra Pound
Odysseus [or Ulysses] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
In a searing review of this author’s memoir <em>The World of Yesterday</em>, Michael Hofmann dubs him the “Pepsi of Austrian writing,” because he “just tastes fake.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who finished his memoir a day before being found holding his hands with his wife in Brazil, both dead from a barbiturate overdose. In his best known novel, Dr. B. is so engrossed in a game of chess against himself that he splits into the personas White and Black.
Hofmann highlights Zweig’s dishonest recollection of an article that he had addressed “To Friends Abroad” during this war. The wheelchair-bound Josef Švejk (“YO-sef sh’VAKE”) is conscripted during this war in a satirical novel by Jaroslav Hašek (“YAH-roh-slav HAH-shek”).
The review further describes Thomas Mann and his family amusing themselves by debating whether Zweig was a worse writer than this author of the World War I novel All Quiet on the Western Front.
Stefan Zweig (The novel is The Royal Game.)
World War I [or the First World War; or the Great War; or the War to End All Wars]
Erich Maria Remarque &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Apart from the final poem, “One Word More,” all fifty-one entries of the collection <em>Men and Women</em> are poems of this type. For 10 points each:
Identify this poetic genre popular in Victorian literature, which is styled as a speech evoking the personality and point of view of a character distinct from the poet.
This author of Men and Women penned dramatic monologues such as “Porphyria’s Lover” and “My Last Duchess.”
Intent on outdoing “Old Gandolf with his paltry onion stone,” the speaker of this Browning monologue specifies that “nine columns” made of “peach-blossom marble” should surround him in his resting place.
dramatic monologue [or dramatic lyrics]
Robert Browning
“The Bishop Orders His Tomb at Saint Praxed’s Church” [or “The Tomb at Saint Praxed’s”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
Ulises attempts to help this character escape with the help of a fortune of diamonds hidden in oranges. For 10 points each:
Name this character, the subject of a novella titled for her “incredible and sad tale,” who is forced to be a prostitute by her grandmother after she burns down their home.
Innocent Eréndira first appeared in this Colombian author’s novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
In One Hundred Years of Solitude, this second son of José Arcadio Buendía unsuccessfully attempts to marry Innocent Eréndira. He later fathers seventeen sons that share his name, all but one of whom are assassinated.
Innocent Eréndira
Gabriel García Márquez
Colonel Aureliano Buendía [prompt on Buendía; prompt on Colonel] &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
After a character in this novel falls unconscious from drinking drugged coffee, an old woman deduces from the marks on his back that he is the criminal Trompe-la-Mort. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose title pasta maker is ostracized by every fellow lodger at his boarding house except for the law student Eugène de Rastignac (“oo-ZHEN duh ross-teen-YOCK”) and by his own daughters, who send empty carriages to his funeral.
Le Père Goriot (“pair gore-YO”) is one of the “scenes from private life” in The Human Comedy, a panoramic 95-volume series by this 19th-century French novelist.
In a culturally influential scene at the very end of Le Père Goriot, Rastignac stands amidst the Père Lachaise (“pair la-SHEZ”) cemetery after Goriot’s burial, addresses this entity, and defiantly bellows: “À nous deux, maintenant!” (“ah noo duh mat-NAWN”), which has sometimes between translated as “it’s war between us now!”
Le Père Goriot [or Father Goriot; or Old Goriot]
Honoré de Balzac
the city of Paris [or the city] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Critic Kenneth Tynan’s pejorative term for middlebrow mid-20th-century British drama, “the Loamshire play,” refers to a fictional county that this author regularly used as a setting. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a “Loamshire novel” about an activist who accidentally kills a constable during a riot that breaks out on the day that his candidate, Harold Transome, loses a parliamentary election.
The chaplain Obadiah Slope delivers an unpopular sermon against chanting in church services near the start of the most popular of the six novels this author set in the fictional county of Barsetshire.
This author agglomerated several southwest English counties into the fictional area of Wessex, where he set novels like Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] (The novel is Felix Holt.)
Anthony Trollope (The novel is Barchester Towers.)
Thomas Hardy &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This phrase appears for the final time in the poem “Island” just before the lines “Good morning, daddy! / Ain’t you heard,” which bookend a book-length suite titled for its “montage.” For 10 points each:
Identify this two-word thing whose potential to “fester like a sore – / And then run” or “dry up / like a raisin in the sun” is the subject of the poem “Harlem.”
This Harlem Renaissance poet of “The Weary Blues” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers” wrote a poem asking “what happens to a dream deferred?”
In another poem from Montage of a Dream Deferred, Hughes states that this six-word “Motto” is “the reason / I stay alive.”
dream deferred [prompt on partial answer]
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
“Dig And Be Dug / In Return” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This author’s story “Idea for a Short Documentary Film” states, in its entirety: “Representatives of different food products manufacturers try to open their own packaging.” For 10 points each:
Identify this American author of flash fiction, whose third collection of stories, Samuel Johnson is Indignant, explains its title with the simple fact “that Scotland has so few trees.” Her other collections include Varieties of Disturbance.
Davis’s wordplay-heavy story “A Mown Lawn” first appeared in the “quarterly concern” of this publishing house founded by Dave Eggers, which also maintains a humor website called its “Internet Tendency.”
Davis’s story “In a House Besieged” bears significant similarities to this Argentinean author’s story “House Taken Over,” which he included in his collection Blow-up. He also wrote the experimental novel Hopscotch.
Lydia Davis
McSweeney’s [or Timothy McSweeney’s Quarterly Concern]
Julio Cortazar (“core-TAH-sar”) &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
After a character in this play claims that “there are worse things than chastity,” the preacher T. Lawrence Shannon responds, “Yes: lunacy and death.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Shannon deals with the fallout of a statutory rape accusation while living in a Mexican hotel.
The Night of the Iguana was written by this American playwright of The Glass Menagerie.
Shannon repeatedly fails to seduce this “totally feminine” character in The Night of the Iguana, after she arrives at the hotel with her nonagenarian poet grandfather Nonno.
The Night of the Iguana
Tennessee Williams
Hannah Jelkes [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Drama&gt;
A poet from this movement committed himself to the Benedictine Abbey of Solesmes for the final thirty years of his life, which he spent compiling aphorisms in volumes such as <em>The Book Besides Me</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this literary movement that was defined as “psychic automatism in its pure state” in a manifesto written by André Breton. It aimed to bridge depictions of reality and the unconscious, much like an identically-named artistic movement led by Salvador Dalí.
This French poet coined the term “surrealism” in the preface to his play The Breasts of Tiresias. He collected many shaped poems in his volume Calligrammes.
This poet penned the Surrealist-inspired volume Solar Throat Slashed, which is titled for the enigmatic final line of Apollinaire’s poem “Zone,” a year after publishing a book-length poem describing a statue of Empress Josephine towering over the natives of his home country.
Surrealism [or word forms, like Surrealist]
Guillaume Apollinaire [or Wilhelm Albert Włodzimierz Apolinary Kostrowicki]
Aimé (Fernand David) Césaire &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
A teenage girl in this novel is so obsessed with classical music that she carves a violin from a ukulele and crouches in the shrubs outside of an estate to hear the symphonies being played inside. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the tomboy Mick Kelly befriends the deaf-mute John Singer, who shoots himself through the heart after learning that his friend Spiros Antonapoulos has died.
Carson McCullers’s novel The Heart is a Lonely Hunter exemplifies the particularly sinister and disturbing “Southern” variant of this genre of novels like Frankenstein and Dracula.
This Virginian author, who decried the “aimless violence” of Southern Gothic literature, explored the decay of Southern aristocracy in her autobiographical novel Barren Ground and her Pulitzer-winning book In This Our Life.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
Southern Gothic
Ellen (Anderson Gholson) Glasgow &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
The protagonist of a novel by this author is hot on the trail of an international criminal that he sees enter the Majestic Hotel, when he receives word that a dead man who looks just like the criminal was found in the toilet of a train car. For 10 points each:
Name this Belgian author of The Strange Case of Peter the Lett, the first of his seventy-six novels about the detective Jules Maigret.
Maigret is far less theatrical than his countryman Hercule Poirot, who solves the title crimes of this author’s novels The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and The Murder on the Orient Express.
Both Simenon’s novel Mon Ami Maigret and Christie’s book The Mystery of the Blue Train are set aboard a luxury express train headed to this region. Dick and Nicole Diver entertain fellow American expatriates in a villa in this area in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s novel Tender Is the Night.
Georges (Joseph Christian) Simenon
(Dame) Agatha (Mary Clarissa) Christie [or Agatha Miller; or Lady Mallowan; or Mary Westmacott]
French Riviera [or Côte d’Azur; or the Azure Coast; or answers indicating the French Mediterranean coast; prompt on Southern France] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This critic’s most famous work illustrated the close-reading techniques of New Criticism with reference to a selection of poems ranging from “The Canonization” to “Among School Children.” For 10 points each:
Name this literary critic, a co-founder of the Southern Review and author of the collection The Well-Wrought Urn.
Brooks founded the Southern Review along with Charles Pipkin and this other New Critic, who wrote the novel All the King’s Men.
The first issue of the Southern Review included “Prodigal,” an essay by John Donald Wade on this author of the novella The Return of the Prodigal, in which Eugene Gant returns to his hometown.
Cleanth Brooks
Robert Penn Warren
Thomas (Clayton) Wolfe [do not accept or prompt on “Tom Wolfe”] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
A group of women in this novel cut out their tongues in solidarity with Ellen James, a girl who had been similarly mutilated by her rapist. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Jenny Fields sleeps with a badly-wounded technical sergeant to conceive the title character, the author of a story about a circus family titled “The Pension Grillparzer.”
This American author of The World According to Garp wrote about a diminutive boy with a squeaky voice in A Prayer for Owen Meany.
Garp sets The Pension Grillparzer in this non-American city, a recurring subject of Irving’s fiction, and the setting of his novel Setting Free the Bears.
The World According to Garp
John (Winslow) Irving [or John Wallace Blunt Jr.]
Vienna [or Wien] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
In the first poem of this collection, a tavern keeper who “knew / the ways of the road” advises the speaker to spill red wine on his prayer carpet. For 10 points each:
Identify this volume containing the collected poems of the poet Hafez, titled for the generic Persian, Urdu, or Arabic word for any such single-author collection.
Several poems directly addressed to Hafez appear in this German poet’s West-Eastern Divan, written several decades after his verse drama Faust.
This American author wrote that Hafez adds to “Pindar, Anacreon, Horace and Burns, the insight of a mystic” in his essay on Persian Poetry. He declared that “if eyes were made for seeing, / Then beauty is its own excuse for Being” in his poem “The Rhodora.”
Divan [or Diwan]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Ralph Waldo Emerson &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
One of the earliest exposés of this regime was a novel that ends with a woman running into a snowstorm with food and clothes for a political agitator who lives a double life as a priest. For 10 points each:
Name this regime, the setting of the novel Bread and Wine. A petty bureaucrat aims to curry the favor of this regime by plotting the assassination of an exiled professor in the novel The Conformist.
The paranoiac Braggadocio informs the hack journalist Colonna that Mussolini survived World War II in Numero Zero, the final published novel by this Italian author of The Name of the Rose.
A scale model originally constructed as part of an architectural exhibition hosted by Mussolini showcases Nero’s grandiloquent redesign of Rome in the 1951 MGM film adaptation of this Henryk Sienkiewicz (“shen-KYEH-vich”) novel.
Fascist Italy [accept descriptive answers such as Italy under Mussolini; prompt on answers mentioning Italy alone]
Umberto Eco
Quo Vadis? &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Counts Terzky and Illo trick a group of drunk soldiers into signing an oath of loyalty to this man, rather than to the emperor. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is assassinated by Macdonald and Deveroux in his bedroom after his betrayal by General Piccolomini.
The Wallenstein trilogy is by this German poet and playwright, whose other politically and historically-themed plays include The Maid of Orleans and William Tell. He also penned the poem “Ode to Joy.”
In this epistolary work addressed to Friedrich Christian II of Denmark, Schiller introduces the concept of “play drive,” which reconciles the conflicting impulses of “sense drive” and “form drive.”
Albrecht von Wallenstein
(Joseph Christoph) Friedrich von Schiller
Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Man [or Letters Upon the Aesthetic Education of Man; or Über die ästhetische Erziehung des Menschen; accept Aesthetical in place of “Aesthetic” in any translation; also accept Aesthetic Letters, as they are conventionally called that for short] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
A novel by C. S. Lewis fictionalizes this location as Malacandra and describes Elwin Ransom’s interactions with its native <em>hrossa</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this location whose rich soil allows Benjamin Driscoll to plant a forest of trees overnight in the story “The Green Morning.”
This American author included “The Green Morning” in his short story collection The Martian Chronicles. He also wrote Fahrenheit 451.
This penultimate story in The Martian Chronicles takes its title from a Sara Teasdale poem that an automated house reads aloud to no one after its family dies in a nuclear war.
Mars (The C. S. Lewis novel is Out of the Silent Planet.)
Ray Bradbury
“There Will Come Soft Rains” &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
The narrator ends this novel by saying “Don’t forget, in the meantime, that this is the season for strawberries. Yes.” immediately after watching its protagonist get fatally hit by a Mercedes. For 10 points each:
Name this 1977 novel in which the writer Rodrigo S. M. narrates the life story of Macabea, a girl who moves to Rio de Janeiro to work as a typist.
Clarice Lispector’s use of internal monologue and stream of consciousness in novels like The Hour of the Star has led her to be dubbed the “Brazilian” counterpart to this Modernist author of To the Lighthouse.
Lispector addressed the autobiographical dimension of her debut novel Near to the Wild Heart by quoting this author’s quip that his best-known female character “is me.” This author pioneered the free indirect style to render the thoughts of that character, who burns her own bridal bouquet.
The Hour of the Star [or A hora da estrela]
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Woolf; or Adeline Virginia Stephen]
Gustave Flaubert &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This is both the original title and the form of Leigh Hunt’s poem “Jenny kiss’d Me.” For 10 points each:
Name this medieval poetic form with an ABBA or AABBA rhyme scheme, in which the first few lines of the poem are repeated in each stanza.
Perhaps the best-known English-language rondeau is a World War I poem by Canadian lieutenant John McCrae, set where “the poppies blow / Between the crosses, row on row” in the “fields” of this region.
In a poem by this author, a group of birds sing a roundel that begins: “Now welcom somer, with thy sonne softe” after selecting their mates in a celestial temple of Venus.
rondeaux [or roundel]
Flanders [or “In Flanders Fields”]
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
A character in this play jokes that he probably wants to sleep with his dad after sharing a kiss on the lips with him. For 10 points each:
Name this play that concludes with Stevie Gray dragging the dead title character back to her husband, a Pritzker Prize-winning architect.
This author of The Goat depicted Nick and Honey’s wild party with George and Martha in Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
The alternate title of The Goat, Who is Sylvia?, refers to this Shakespeare play, in which Proteus attempts to woo Sylvia by serenading her with the lines “Who is Silvia? What is she, / That all our swains commend her?”
The Goat, or Who is Sylvia? [accept either underlined portion]
Edward Albee
The Two Gentlemen of Verona &lt;Drama&gt;
An expedition built assorted structures like a church and museum in this novel’s setting before all of its members succumbed to a strange disease that ate away at their nails, hair, and skin. For 10 points each:
Name this 1940 novel set on an island home to a machine that photographs the five human senses, and then projects them to create realistic images.
Adolfo Bioy Casares took the title and several themes of The Invention of Morel from this English science fiction author’s novel about a scientist who vivisects animals to create hybrid humans, The Island of Doctor Moreau.
Humans on the island of Santa Rosalia evolve into animals in a sort of inverse-Moreau in Kurt Vonnegut’s novel Galapagos, which is narrated by the son of this science fiction author who recurs in Vonnegut’s fiction.
The Invention of Morel [or Morel’s Invention; or La invención de Morel]
H. G. Wells [or Herbert George Wells]
Kilgore Trout [accept either name] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Answer the following about the <em>ubi sunt</em> formula, in which poems repeat the words “where are” to evoke nostalgia or the transience of life, for 10 points each.
The archetypal example of the genre is the “Ballade of the Ladies of Times Past” by this 15th-century poet and criminal, which memorably refrains the line “where are the snows of yesteryear?”
The line “Where are the songs of spring? Ay, Where are they?” indicates a tonal shift toward a barren landscape in “To Autumn,” which joins “Ode on a Grecian Urn” as part of this author’s “1819 odes.”
The Old English words hwær cwom (“hwair quome”), meaning “where has gone,” are used throughout this 10th-century Anglo-Saxon poem about an exiled retainer reflecting on his days serving his lord.
François Villon (“vee-YAWN”)
John Keats
The Wanderer &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
Abdallah ibn al-Mu’tazz, who served as caliph for only a day and a night, is best known for his <em>Kitab al-Badi</em>, an early polemic on poetic style in this language. For 10 points each:
Name this language whose use of metaphorical expressions, or badi’, was defended by al-Mu’tazz as rooted in the literary heritage of the Qur’an.
One of the authors discussed in the Kitab al-Badi was this poet, who mocked the continued attachment to the standards of Bedouin poetry in “The Wretch Paused” and who wrote “wine poems” such as “Don’t Cry for Layla.”
Abu Nuwas was eventually exiled by this Abbasid caliph, whose wealthy court was fictionalized as the setting for the Thousand and One Nights.
Arabic [or al-arabiyyah]
Abu Nuwas
Harun al-Rashid &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
A cigar store owner who carries out political assassinations is unable to prove his handler’s existence after being captured, in a novel written in this language titled <em>The Darkroom of Damocles</em>. For 10 points each:
Nazi authorities murder a boy’s family simply because the corpse of a collaborator was found in front of the family’s house in The Assault, which was written in what language by Harry Mulisch?
In Harry Mulisch’s novel The Discovery of Heaven, the astronomer Max Delius visits this place to learn about his family history. Primo Levi’s memoir If This is a Man is set in this place, as is the bulk of an autobiographical novel whose protagonist befriends Moshe the Beadle in Sighet.
The memoir of this inmate of Auschwitz and Buchenwald was published in Dutch as The Diary of a Young Girl after being transcribed by her father Otto.
Dutch [or Nederlands]
Auschwitz-Birkenau [or Birkenau; or Buna]
Anne Frank [or Annelies Marie Frank] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This critic argued that a “system of civil and economical prudence” could be constructed from the collected plays of Shakespeare in a 1765 “preface” to the Bard’s work. For 10 points each:
Name this English literary critic who also published his social and literary criticism in his own weekly periodical, The Rambler.
In the 60th issue of The Rambler, Johnson argued for a realistic approach to writing works of this type, opposing what he thought was the overly praiseful style of authors such as Plutarch. James Boswell wrote a famous work of this type about Samuel Johnson himself.
Johnson penned a 1744 biography of this English poet and convicted murderer best-known for writing The Wanderer after befriending and accompanying him on his famous nighttime walks around London.
Samuel Johnson
biography [or a life; or lives]
Richard Savage [accept The Life of Mr Richard Savage] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
While employed in this profession, an author collected dozens of three- to six-line surrealistic poems about nature in his volume <em>Micrograms</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this non-literary profession held by the Ecuadorian poet Jorge Carrera Andrade and, until his resignation in response to the Tlatelolco Massacre, by Octavio Paz.
Before embarking on a string of consulships throughout Asia and in Spain, this Chilean Communist poet published his Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
While stationed in Madrid, Neruda became a primary witness to the carnage of the Spanish Civil War, which is the subject of this poem that he ends by thrice inviting the reader to “Come and see the blood in the streets!”
diplomat [or ambassador; or attaché; or consul; or envoy; accept other synonyms; accept specific countries if they are mentioned]
Pablo Neruda [or Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto]
“I Explain a Few Things” [or “I’m Explaining a Few Things”; or “A Few Things Explained”; or “Explico algunas cosas”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
One of these characters has a recurring dream of a coffin containing piles of clothes laid atop the bodies of her male relatives. For 10 points each:
Identify the collective nickname of the sisters Minerva, Patria, and Mate (“MAH-tay”), who are strangled, clubbed, and thrown in a Jeep that is pushed off a cliff by the henchmen of a dictator in a 1994 novel.
The aforementioned dictator, Rafael Trujillo (“troo-HEE-yo”), inflicts a supernatural curse called a fukú upon the family of an overweight Dominican teen who is struggling to lose his virginity in this author’s novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
Trujillo orders his goons to execute anyone with a non-standard pronunciation of the Spanish word for “parsley” in The Farming of Bones, a novel by this Haitian author of Breath, Eyes, Memory.
butterflies [or butterfly; prompt on Mirabal sisters; the novel is In the Time of the Butterflies by Julia Alvarez]
Junot Díaz
Edwidge Danticat (“ed-WEEJ don-tee-KAH”) &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
In this play, an elaborate scheme is hatched in which Waitwell is to woo Lady Wishfort so another character can marry Millamant for her fortune. For 10 points each:
Name this William Congreve play that ends with Mirabell revealing that he already controls the fortune of Mrs. Fainall.
The Way of the World and George Etherege’s Love in a Tub are both examples of “comedies of manners” from this era of British history during the reign of Charles II.
Examples of these fashionable stock characters in Restoration comedies include Friendall in Thomas Southerne’s The Wives’ Excuse and Sir Novelty Fashion in Colley Cibber’s (“SIB-er’s”) Love’s Last Shift. Cibber played a role named for this type of character in John Vanbrugh’s (“VAN-bruh’s”) The Relapse.
The Way of the World
English Restoration [accept Restoration comedies]
fops [accept Lord Foppington; prompt on beaus] &lt;Drama&gt;
This character dons a green dress and walks into the yard, yelling “Chickens! Chickens! Look at me!” For 10 points each:
Name this sister of Martirio and Angustias, who hangs herself at the end of the play in which she appears after mistakenly assuming that her mother has killed her lover, Pepe el Romano.
Adela appears in The House of Bernarda Alba, a work by this Spanish playwright and member of the Generation of ’27.
This other 20th-century Spanish dramatist co-founded the Panic Movement collective in 1962 with Alejandro Jodorowsky and Roland Topor after moving to France, where he published violent plays such as The Architect and the Emperor of Assyria and Automobile Graveyard.
Adela Alba [prompt on Alba]
Federico Garcia Lorca
Fernando Arrabal &lt;Drama&gt; CAN BE READ TO ANYONE
In one of this book’s stories, Baco Rangel goes to an American restaurant in order to meet obese white women. For 10 points each:
Name this 1995 collection of short stories featuring the recurring character of the businessman Leonardo Barroso, that includes the aforementioned story “Spoils.”
The Crystal Frontier was written by this Mexican author of Terra Nostra and The Death of Artemio Cruz.
In an early short story by Fuentes, Filberto drowns after buying one of these reclining Mesoamerican statues, which comes to life and stalks him.
The Crystal Frontier [or The Glass Border; accept La frontera de cristal]
Carlos Fuentes
a chacmool &lt;Short Fiction&gt; CAN BE READ TO ANYONE
This novel is partly narrated by Hans Vollman, a printer who was crushed to death by a fallen ceiling beam while consummating his marriage. For 10 points each:
Name this 2017 novel in which an American president ventures into the liminal Tibetan Buddhist realm between death and the afterlife to mourn the passing of his eleven-year-old son Willie.
The otherworldly narration of George Saunders’s Lincoln in the Bardo was inspired by this Edgar Lee Masters collection narrated by the ghosts of a small town, including Lincoln’s first love Ann Rutledge.
John Hay recounts one of Lincoln’s routine visits to his son’s crypt in one of the “narratives of empire” by this acerbic American author of Myra Breckinridge.
Lincoln in the Bardo (by George Saunders)
Spoon River Anthology
Gore Vidal [or Eugene Louis Vidal]
This country’s 18th-century writers produced works of protest literature such as The Unseemly Silverpiped Swingers and Twin Arts Threshing Device to decry the influence of neo-Confucianism. For 10 points each:
Name this country in which the 1791 Kansei Reforms instituted censorship of political satire and books that discussed the “floating world,” or ukiyo, culture of the pleasure district in its capital of Edo.
Many of the authors censored by the Kansei Reforms, such as Santō Kyōden and Jippensha Ikku, were contributors to the comic book-style genre of kibyōshi (“keeb-YO-shee”), which was characterized by book covers of this color.
Jippensha Ikku wrote the picaresque novel Hizakurige (“hee-zah-KOO-reen-geh”), whose protagonists journey between Edo and Kyoto on the Tōkaidō road, which this woodblock artist depicted in a series of 53 prints.
Japan [or Nippon]
yellow (Kibyōshi literally means “yellow cover.”)
Utagawa Hiroshige (“hee-roh-SHEEN-geh”)
Ptitsyn (“p’TEET-sin”) compares this action to the Japanese custom of avenging an insult by committing hara-kiri in front of the insulter. For 10 points each:
Name this climactic action at the end of Book I of an 1869 novel, which a woman perpetrates at her own dinner party to mock the avarice of her suitor Ganya.
The spiteful fallen woman Nastasya Filippovna attracts the epileptic Prince Myshkin in The Idiot, a novel by this author of Crime and Punishment.
After successfully courting her with the hundred thousand rubles, this evil merchant becomes intensely jealous of the attention Nastasya showers on Myshkin, so he beats her and eventually stabs her through the heart.
Nastasya Filippovna tossing 100,000 rubles into her fireplace in The Idiot [accept any answers that convey that she’s burning money; or burning a marriage offer]
Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky]
Parfyon Semyonovich Rogozhin
This event was publicly announced in the preface to the volume For Lancelot Andrewes, in which the author also proclaimed that he was a “classicist in literature” and a “royalist in politics.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1927 event that a certain author closely examined in his poem “Ash Wednesday.”
Even before his conversion, Eliot drew from the Anglican Book of Common Prayer to title “The Burial of the Dead,” the first section of this modernist poem that opens: “April is the cruellest month, breeding.”
“Ash Wednesday” depicts the moment of Eliot’s conversion as an encounter in one of these places with a “silent sister veiled in white and blue.” In the first section of “Burnt Norton,” the speaker hears “footfalls echo in the memory / Down the passage” leading to one of these places.
T. S. Eliot’s conversion to Anglicanism [or T. S. Eliot’s conversion to Anglo-Catholicism; accept T. S. Eliot’s conversion to Christianity; do not accept any answer about “conversion to Catholicism”]
The Waste Land
rose garden
In this novel’s first chapter, a French filmmaker flips at random through an anthology of Elizabethan plays and finds an unmailed letter recording the protagonist’s drunken hallucinations, which he then burns. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose following eleven chapters, all set on a single day a year earlier, end with a woman being trampled to death by a horse, followed by her husband being thrown off a ravine along with a dead dog.
In Malcolm Lowry’s Under the Volcano, Hugh Firmin impulsively partakes in one of these events at the estate of Hernán Cortés. In The Sun Also Rises, Pedro Romero attracts Lady Brett Ashley’s attention with his performance in one of these events.
The bullfight scene in Under the Volcano was modeled after the one that opens The Plumed Serpent, a novel set in Mexico by this author of Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
Under the Volcano (by Malcolm Lowry)
bullfights
D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]
Answer the following about science fiction and mainstream literature, for 10 points each.
This author noted that younger readers of her series about an advanced alien civilization from the star of Canopus rarely engaged with her more traditionally literary output.
In his essay “Close Encounters,” Jonathan Lethem wrote that any hope that science fiction could merge with the literary mainstream died when Arthur C. Clarke’s novel Rendezvous with Rama won the Nebula Award over this author’s book Gravity’s Rainbow.
The author of this novel refused the label of science fiction, since this book has no “talking squids in outer space.” It does, however, feature a character named Snowman in a world filled with genetically engineered hybrid animals like rakunks.
Doris (May) Lessing [The series is Canopus in Argos]
Thomas (Ruggles) Pynchon (Jr.)
Oryx and Crake [by Margaret Atwood] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This novel’s antagonist boasts about making the prostitute Anna Wetherell miscarry after his horse gets startled and kicks her in the stomach. For 10 points each:
A “Character Chart” assigns a sign of the zodiac to each of twelve characters at the start of what longest-ever Booker-winning novel, set during a gold rush in the town of Hokitika?
Eleanor Catton’s The Luminaries is a contemporary example of the “sensation novel,” a melodramatic genre that reached its peak with this Victorian author’s book The Woman in White.
In perhaps the most the Victorian touch of all in The Luminaries, Anna develops an addiction to this drug. Wilkie Collins was himself addicted to this narcotic, which inspired Coleridge to write “Kubla Khan.”
The Luminaries
Wilkie Collins
opium [or poppy tears; or laudanum] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
The speaker of this poem tells his lover not to cry, because “the best gesture of my brain is less than / your eyelids’ flutter which says / we are for each other.” For 10 points each:
Name this love poem that asks “who pays any attention / to the syntax of things,” for “life’s not a paragraph / And death i think is no parenthesis.”
This American poet of “since feeling is first” regularly ignored the rules of punctuation and capitalization.
The line “you are Mine said she” ends this cummings poem, written as a dialogue between a man and a woman as they are having sex.
“since feeling is first”
e e cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
“may i feel said he” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This author began his poem “Account” by declaring that “The history of my stupidity would fill many volumes.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who described his “former lives… departing, / like ships, together with their sorrow” in his poem “Late Ripeness,” which was translated into English with the help of his Berkeley colleague Robert Hass.
Miłosz wrote a poem declaring that these works should be written “rarely and reluctantly, / under unbearable duress.” A similarly-titled poem by Archibald MacLeish states that these writings “should not mean / But be.”
Miłosz reports that a “drunkard grows sleepy at the edge of a lawn” in a poetic “Song on” this event, which a different poem predicts will happen “Not with a bang but with a whimper.”
Czesław Miłosz (“CHESS-waff MEE-woash”)
poems (Both poems are titled “Ars Poetica.”)
the end of the world [or descriptive equivalents] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
At the end of this novel, its protagonist experiences the title sensation when he inserts a zinc milk dipper into a set of train tracks in an attempt to see God, and is knocked out by the ensuing shock. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the upbringing of David Schearl, a Galician Jewish immigrant in New York.
Irving Howe, the critic whose 1964 review of Call It Sleep spurred its reprinting, once savagely remarked that “the cruelest thing anyone can do with” this other novel “is to read it twice.” Its protagonist refers to his lover with such nicknames as “The Pumpkin,” “The Pilgrim,” and “The Monkey.”
The author of Call It Sleep shares this surname with a different Jewish author who fictionalized him as the writer E. I. Lonoff in Exit Ghost, and also wrote American Pastoral and Portnoy’s Complaint.
Call It Sleep
Portnoy’s Complaint
Roth [accept Henry Roth or Philip Roth] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Practitioners of this literary form include the “honey-tongued” Claudius Aelianus. For 10 points each:
Name this literary form. Works of this type were delivered aloud in public by speakers like Cicero.
A 1st-century BCE rhetorical movement that favored the plainer language of the Classical period was named for this city. Alexandrians compiled a canon of its ten best speakers, including Antiphon and Lysias.
This South African author constantly defended her idiosyncratic negative portrayals of the orator Demosthenes in notes attached to her novels. She wrote homoerotic historical novels like Funeral Games and The Persian Boy.
oration [or oratory literature or rhetoric; prompt on speeches or oral literature]
Athens [accept Atticism]
Mary Renault &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
Translator Matthew Ward set the precedent for preserving one of the words in this line in its original language. For 10 points each:
Identify this strikingly impassive sentence that opens a novel whose protagonist shoots an Arab on the beach.
The sentence “Maman died today” signals Meursault’s (“mur-SOH’s”) indifference in this novel by Albert Camus.
The line “I was not sorry when my brother died” opens this novel about Tambu’s desire to attend missionary school. It was written by Zimbabwean author Tsitsi Dangarembga.
“Maman died today” [or “Mother died today” or “Today, mother died” or “Today, mother is dead” or “Aujourd’hui, Maman est morte”]
The Stranger [or The Outsider; or L’étranger]
Nervous Conditions &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
Many editions of this author’s collected poems conclude with the words “These blue days and this sun of childhood,” which were found scribbled on a piece of paper in his coat pocket after he died. For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish poet who repeated the lines “Traveler, there is no road / The road is your traveling,” in a poem from the “Proverbios y cantares” section of his major volume, Cantos de Castilla.
This author, who crossed paths with Machado in Paris, wrote a poem that described him as “wrapped in silence, secret-shy.” This Nicaraguan poet drew from French Symbolism to develop a movement called modernismo.
Antonio Machado’s brother Manuel wrote a sarcastic poem about city life with this adjective in the title. A landmark Symbolist collection by Charles Baudelaire is titled for “flowers” of this type.
Antonio Machado [or Antonio Cipriano José María y Francisco de Santa Ana Machado y Ruiz]
Ruben Dario
evil [or mal] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
At one point, the image of this person being surrounded by tubes while being treated for tuberculosis in a hospital reminds the narrator of Gulliver tied down by pygmies on an island. For 10 points each:
Name this person whose death coincides with the Detroit race riots and the 19th birthday of the author of an essay. That essay about him includes a pivotal scene where its author throws a water jug at an innocent waitress.
James Baldwin ruminated on his father’s influence in an essay titled for “notes on” this Richard Wright novel about Bigger Thomas.
Baldwin’s father was a member of this profession, which Baldwin himself rejected in favor of writing. In Baldwin’s autobiographical Go Tell It on the Mountain, John Grimes’s father Gabriel also has this profession.
James Baldwin’s father [or David Baldwin; prompt on Baldwin; prompt on father by asking “of who?”]
Native Son [or Notes of a Native Son]
preacher [accept equivalents such as minister or priest] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
Answer the following about classical novels, for 10 points each.
Augustine bestowed the derisive nickname “The Golden Ass” upon a Latin-language novel by Apuleius (“uh-POO-lee-us”) that shares this proper title with a collection of myths by Ovid themed around transformation.
In the fragmentary Satyricon by Petronius, this ex-slave throws an opulent feast featuring live birds sewn up in a pig and dishes corresponding to signs of the zodiac.
Jean Racine claimed to have memorized this 3rd-century Greek romance about the lovers Theagenes and Chariclea, the latter of whom was born white because her mother had looked at a painting of the naked Andromeda while having sex.
Metamorphoses
Trimalchio (“tri-MALL-kee-oh”)
Aethiopica [or The Ethiopian Story] (by Heliodorus of Emesa) &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
This character insists on keeping his “followers dissatisfied, because if they are satisfied, they won’t come again.” For 10 points each:
Name character who gets some prophets drunk to defeat Shadrack in an election in a play about his “Metamorphosis.” He convinces his assistant Chume to beat his wife in another play.
This Nigerian author wrote The Trials of Brother Jero and Death and the King’s Horseman.
This protagonist of Soyinka’s Death and the King’s Horseman uses the story of the “Not-I” bird to convince the Praise-Singer of his readiness to commit suicide, which he ends up doing by hanging himself with his own chains.
Brother Jero
Wole Soyinka (“WALL-ay SHOW-ying-ka”)
Elesin Oba [accept either name; prompt on the King’s Horseman] &lt;Drama&gt;
This author created a fictional version of the Judeo-Christian God who drives a pink Jeep Wagoneer in a demolition derby and debates saying “THAT’S WHO I AM” instead of “I AM THAT I AM” in her collection 99 Stories of God. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary American author who also wrote the short story collection The Visiting Privilege and novels such as State of Grace and The Changeling.
Joy Williams studied and taught at the famed “writers’ workshop” founded by Wilbur Schramm and directed for many years by Paul Engle at this midwestern university.
Williams graduated from the Iowa Writers’ Workshop in 1965, the same year that this American author began teaching his “Form of Fiction” class there. This author of the dystopian short story “Harrison Bergeron” invented the time-traveling veteran Billy Pilgrim in his best-known novel.
Joy Williams
University of Iowa [accept Iowa Writers’ Workshop; prompt on U of I]
Kurt Vonnegut Jr.
Horticultural language is used throughout a poem in this collection featuring one of the earliest known depictions in culture of a scythe-wielding Grim Reaper. For 10 points each:
Name this influential collection of German folk songs edited and assembled by Clemens Brentano and Achim von Arnim.
Several of the songs in Des Knaben Wunderhorn were interpolated from Brentano’s novel Godwi, which is the source of the legend dramatized in this Heinrich Heine (“HY-nuh”) poem about a siren who captivates men sailing on the Rhine.
Des Knaben Wunderhorn inspired two members of this family named Jacob and Wilhelm to collect folk-tales of their own, such as “The Frog Prince” and “Hansel and Gretel.”
Des Knaben Wunderhorn (“duss k’NAH-bin VOON-duh-horn”) [or The Boy’s Magic Horn]
“Die Lorelei”
the Brothers Grimm
This nonfiction work criticizes the construction of the Glen Canyon Dam, a stance its author later developed in novels such as <em>Hayduke Lives</em> and <em>The Monkey Wrench Gang</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1968 memoir by Edward Abbey that describes his experiences as a ranger at Arches National Park.
In Desert Solitaire, Abbey asks whether the “fear born of nightmares” or the “nightmares that rise from fear” drove this cliff-dwelling Native American culture out of sites like Arches and Mesa Verde National Park.
Desert Solitaire is often compared to A Sand County Almanac, a similarly autobiographical work by this environmentalist Wisconsinite, who advanced a form of conservation organized around the “land ethic.”
Desert Solitaire
Ancestral Puebloans [or Ancient Puebloans; accept the Anasazi]
Aldo Leopold &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
This author’s “Letter to Jimmy” was written for the twentieth anniversary of the death of his literary hero, James Baldwin. For 10 points each:
Name this Congolese author and “Samuel Beckett of Africa”. Works of his to have been translated into English include African Psycho, Broken Glass and Black Moses, nominated for the 2017 Man Booker International Prize.
Mabanckou’s Patrick Bateman equivalent in African Psycho is Grégoire, who wants to kill his girlfriend. He asks serial killer Angoualima for tips, who has this same problem as all the narrators of the Spoon River Anthology.
Although he is fluent in six other languages, Mabanckou writes his works in this official language of the DRC. This European language was also used by the Senegalese poet Léopold Sédar Senghor.
Alain Mabanckou
being dead [accept equivalents]
French &lt;EJW&gt;
Other theories and timescales about this process have been proposed by historians Hugh McLeod and Simon Green. For 10 points each:
Name this process, the subject of Callum Brown’s controversial book The Death of Christian Britain. This process entails the disaffiliation of religious values and institutions from everyday life.
A vigorous campaigner against the secularisation of Britain was this woman, who protested what she saw as immoral television, and successfully sued ‘Gay News’ for blasphemous libel.
This man was described as ‘the devil incarnate’ by Mary Whitehouse, and commissioned a portrait of her with five breasts. This man prevented Whitehouse from television appearances as head of the BBC.
Secularisation
Mary Whitehouse
Hugh Greene &lt;JS&gt;
One essay in this collection opens with a reflection on the painting <em>Daughters of Lot</em> by Lucas van den Leyden, which introduces the title concept of <em>Metaphysics and the Mise en Scene</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this essay collection by Antoine Artaud, which pioneered the “Theatre of Cruelty” and included an attack on the canon in No More Masterpieces.
Artaud broke from the style of this theatre practitioner, who developed method acting in his stagings of The Seagull and Hamlet with the Moscow Arts Theatre. He detailed his methodology in An Actor Prepares.
This theatre practitioner also broke from Stanislavski by separating audience and characters through his “distancing effect”. He used it in his own plays, like The Threepenny Opera and Mother Courage and her Children.
The Theatre and its Double [or Le Theatre et son Double]
Konstantin Stanislavski
Bertolt Brecht &lt;JK&gt;
The first action of one of these two characters is to turn away from the other, and consider her own reflection. For 10 points each:
Name these two characters, one of whom is created from the rib of the other in Paradise Lost. They tend to the Garden of Eden before being kicked out after sinning against God.
This German playwright reimagined the story of Adam and Eve in The Broken Jug, in which the title object is a heavy-handed metaphor for Eve’s lost virginity. His other plays include Penthesilea and The Prince of Homburg.
A Cambridge scholar – who else? – stops the first two humans on Venus from sinning, allowing them to live forever in Paradise, in this author’s novel Perelandra. This author also wrote The Screwtape Letters.
Adam and Eve
Heinrich von Kleist
Clive Staples Lewis &lt;JK&gt;
This novel ends with its protagonist lying asleep in a rye field, where she earlier watched a tryst between Tatiana and her lover. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. The protagonist of this novel leaves South Tahla after Michael Richardson leaves her for Anne-Marie at a ball in Town Beach, and pursues Jack Hold upon her return ten years later.
The Ravishing of Lol Stein is a novel by this French author, who fictionalised her teenage affair with a wealthy Chinese man in The Lover and adapted her own novel into the screenplay for Hiroshima mon amour.
For another of her films, Duras adapted her unfinished play titled for the “song” of this country. Writers from this country include the authors of Nectar in a Sieve and Clear Light of Day, Kamala Markandaya and Anita Desai.
The Ravishing of Lol Stein [or Le ravissement de Lol V. Stein]
Marguerite Duras
India &lt;EJW&gt;
One of this author’s works takes the form of a conversation between Mr Wiseman and Mr Attentive about their deceased townsman Mr Badman. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Life and Death of Mr Badman, the allegorical novel The Holy War, and the spiritual autobiography Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners.
Bunyan is best known for this 1678 work whose first part charts the journey of Christian to the Celestial City and whose second part follows Christian’s wife and sons on their journey along a similar route.
In The Pilgrim’s Progress, Evangelist encourages Christian to seek deliverance at this structure. Mr Worldly Wiseman distracts Christian on the way to this narrow structure, which marks the start of the King’s Highway.
John Bunyan
The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World, to That Which Is to Come
The Wicket Gate &lt;HO&gt;
How much do you know about the American poet and essayist Charles Olson? For 10 points:
This first book by Olson was a study of Moby-Dick, arguing that the character of Ahab was transformed by Herman Melville’s reading of King Lear. This book’s title is also the opening line of Moby-Dick.
In a manifesto detailing this theory of poetry, Olson wrote that “a poem is energy transferred from where the poet got it […], by way of the poem itself to, all the way over to, the reader”. That manifesto has the same name as this theory of poetry.
Charles Olson was born in this state. His Maximus Poems often refer to the city of Gloucester in this state, which was also home to a poet who included “Skunk Hour” in his Life Studies.
Call Me Ishmael
Projective Verse [accept word forms or open verse]
Massachusetts &lt;EJJL&gt;
This novel’s sequel, published 45 years later, describes its title concept going “Bung”. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the tomboy Sybylla Melvyn, who wants to be a writer but is forced to work as a governess due to her drunkard father’s debts. She turns down Harold Beecham’s proposal, deciding to focus on the title concept.
My Brilliant Career is a novel by this Australian author, who also wrote about Irish immigrant Danny Delacy in All That Swagger. She names a literary award for the best novel or play depicting Australian life.
This author has won the Miles Franklin Award three times, for his novels Bliss, Jack Maggs, and Oscar and Lucinda. He is lauded as perhaps Australia’s best candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature.
My Brilliant Career
(Stella Maria Sarah) Miles Franklin
Peter Carey &lt;EJW&gt;
Veronica Forrest-Thomson's <em>Poetic Artifice</em> was published forty years ago this year. For 10 points each:
Forrest-Thomson's critical work was heavily indebted to this man. She paid tribute to him in her second volume of poetry, Language-Games, which is titled for a concept in this thinker's Philosophical Investigations.
In “Cordelia: or, ‘A Poem Should Not Mean, But Be’”, Forrest-Thomson claims that this man thinks the Cambridge University Library has got his middle name wrong, because the "H" actually stands for "Hah". This author of Kitchen Poems part-supervised Forrest-Thomson's PhD.
In Poetic Artifice, Forrest-Thomson criticises writers who think they have access to “reality in its unmediated state”. According to her, this author of “Born Yesterday” is “almost embarrassingly lucid” in his poem “Mr Bleaney”.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Jeremy Halvard Prynne
Philip Larkin &lt;EJJL&gt;
According to this collection, Pontius Pilate’s fingernails were “like shells from Galilee”, and a campanologist “fucked [Mrs Quasimodo] underneath the gaping, stricken bells”. For 10 points each:
Women of literature and history share their stories in this collection of poems, which opens with Little Red Cap.
The World’s Wife was written by this feminist Poet Laureate, who also won the T.S. Eliot Prize for her anthology, Rapture.
A nun thinks of her convent as “a land of grace” in this poem in The World’s Wife. Its speaker says it has been a long time since she “walked down Lonely Street / towards Heartbreak Hotel”.
The World’s Wife
Dame Carol Ann Duffy
Elvis’s Twin Sister &lt;LC&gt;
A book may be “on yellow paper” in several different senses. For 10 points each:
The Yellow Book, a quarterly literary periodical in 1890s London, was literally yellow. Its first art editor was this illustrator of Salomé, whose drawings often featured inappropriate details that annoyed John Lane.
In a short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, the protagonist is confined to a yellow wallpapered room by her husband in an attempt to cure her of this mental illness, characterised by chronic low mood and lethargy.
This English author explored rather different themes in her Novel on Yellow Paper, telling of a bored secretary named Pompey who visits Germany and is shocked into interrogating her own anti-Semitism.
Aubrey Beardsley
(post-partum) depression
Stevie Smith &lt;EJW&gt;
This collection includes stories about a Hungarian baron who has an incestuous relationship with his daughters, and a wife who experiences a placebo effect from a fake aphrodisiac at the cinema. For 10 points each:
Name this posthumous collection of fifteen stories, including Marcel and The Basque and Bijou. It was written for a client known as ‘The Collector’.
Delta of Venus is a work of this writer and essayist, who wrote about her affair with Henry Miller. She is also known for the collection Little Birds and the novella A Spy in the House of Love.
Delta of Venus is a work of this genre, of which Nin is one of the most celebrated proponents. Other writers in this sometimes taboo genre include Carol Queen and E.L. James.
Delta of Venus
Anaïs Nin
erotic fiction [accept erotica, or answers that get at “sex”] &lt;Theo&gt;
The protagonist of this novel obtains his tobacco from two inseparable Estonians, and makes friends with a funny Latvian named Kilgas. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Alyosha the Baptist, Fetyukov and Gopchik work alongside the protagonist laying bricks in the cold.
Ivan Denisovich spends his day in one of these miserable places. Another of Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s works is titled for an “archipelago” of these places where Soviet dissidents were worked to extreme pain and death.
This novel by Vladimir Sorokin also takes place over the course of 24 grim Russian hours, as its title henchman navigates his daily grind of arson, murder, and glow-in-the-dark genitalia in 2028 Moscow.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich
gulag [prompt on things like work camp]
The Day of the Oprichnik &lt;EJW&gt;
This poet compared love to “fish and chips on winter nights” and “blankets full of strange delights”. For 10 points each:
Name this British Beat poet of “Love Is” and “I Want to Print”, who spent the 1970s in a relationship with Carol Ann Duffy.
Henri was a poet from this British city, where he came to prominence as part of its Merseybeat movement.
Henri co-authored the collection The Mersey Sound with Brian Patten and this other poet, who wrote “Let me die a young man’s death.” He also presents Poetry Please on Radio 4.
Adrian Henri
Liverpool
Roger McGough &lt;Tom&gt;
In Stan Barstow’s novel <em>A Kind of Loving,</em> the draughtsman Vic Brown is compelled by social expectation to marry his girlfriend Ingrid after he causes her to end up in this state. For 10 points each:
Identify this state, which also facilitates Joe Lampton’s swift marriage to the wealthy businessman’s daughter Susan Brown in John Braine’s Room at the Top.
In this 1958 play set in Salford, the seventeen-year-old Jo becomes pregnant by a black sailor. Dramatist Shelagh Delaney wrote this kitchen sink drama at the age of just eighteen.
This 1960 novel by Lynne Reid Banks also concerns an unmarried woman who finds herself in the family way. In the novel, Jane Graham is thrown out of her home by her father and moves into the title lodgings.
pregnancy [accept word forms; accept expecting a child; accept baser synonyms]
A Taste of Honey
The L-Shaped Room &lt;HO&gt;
According to one poem, when one of these animals went “out of sight, it marked the edge of one of many circles”, and “among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing” was the eye of one of these animals. For 10 points each:
Name this animal, which that poem gives “thirteen ways of looking at”.
Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird is a poem by this American Modernist poet of The Emperor of Ice-Cream, who produced much of his work while working full-time as an insurance executive.
In another poem by Stevens, this Shakespearean character describes how “the self-same sounds on my spirit make a music, too” while playing that poem’s title instrument.
blackbird [prompt on bird]
Wallace Stevens
Peter Quince (at the Clavier) [prompt on Peter] &lt;JK&gt;
In one novel, this author reflects on two uses of the word “no” in his life; one when his wife suggests they have children, and one when he is asked by a doctor whether he has children. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about refusing to bring new life into a world that allowed the Holocaust in Kaddish for an Unborn Child, and of a child’s experience in Buchenwald in Fateless.
This author from the same country as Kertész writes about a circus that only has a whale in The Melancholy of Resistance, and how farmers escape from their masters in an authoritarian society in Satantango.
Kertész and Krasznahorkai are both from this Central European nation, whose other contemporary authors include Péter Nádas and whose national epic is The Siege of Sziget.
Imre Kertész [KER-TESH]
László Krasznahorkai [KRASS-NA-WHORE-KYE]
Hungary [accept Magyarország] &lt;Theo&gt;
Authors often seem to end up leaving their life’s work on trains. For 10 points each:
While in London to get Yeats to write an introduction for this collection, Tagore left his only copy of it on the Tube. Luckily, it ended up at the Lost Property Office, allowing him to win the Nobel for this work.
This author was less lucky when he lost his manuscript of The Seven Pillars of Wisdom while changing trains in Reading; he had to rewrite all 250,000 words of it. The work discusses this author’s career in the Middle East.
Another example of train-based literary misfortune, this time fictional, occurs when this professor of Russian at Waindell College loses his lecture notes and some student essays, while on a train to Cremona.
Gitanjali
Thomas Edward Lawrence, or Lawrence of Arabia
Timofey Pavlovich Pnin &lt;JK&gt;
A luxury magazine set up in this book is titled Ogee [Oh-gee], after the s-shaped double curve. For 10 points each:
Name this Man Booker winning novel, whose main character Nick is writing a PhD on Henry James. His conquests include a waiter Tristao, Wani Ouradi, and Leo, a black man from Willesden.
The Line of Beauty is a 2004 Man Booker Prize winning novel by this British author, who also wrote The Swimming Pool Library and The Stranger’s Child.
At a party held by his host, Gerald Fadden, Nick gets high on coke and dances “rather sexily” to the Rolling Stones with this Prime Minister. This woman remarks that “It’s not often one gets asked to dance by a don.”
The Line of Beauty
Alan Hollinghurst
Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher, LG, OM, PC &lt;JS&gt;
For a man who wrote a load of stuff, especially about people talking, Plato really didn’t seem to like writing and talking that much. For 10 points each:
Plato has Socrates attack this field in both Phaedrus and Gorgias, in the latter of which Socrates calls this field a “flattery” while asking Gorgias the value of teaching it. Quintilian wrote a popular guide to this field.
This Plato work includes the quote "every serious man dealing with really serious subjects carefully avoids writing." This work mainly contains Plato’s complaints about working in the court of Dion of Syracuse.
This long Plato dialogue includes his decision that frivolous writers, especially poets, should be banished from the ideal city Kallipolis, run by philosopher-kings, that titles the work.
rhetoric [also accept oratory and word forms]
The Seventh Letter
The Republic [also accept Politeia or Res Publica] &lt;JK&gt;
The protagonist of this novel sees himself as Othello and his wife as Desdemona, a theme echoed throughout with Shakespearean quotations. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, whose title character Bento is plagued with jealousy over his wife Capitu’s suspected infidelity with his friend Escobar, and begins to doubt that Ezequiel is really his son.
Dom Casmurro is a novel by this author, who also penned Quincas Borba and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and has been called the “supreme black literary artist” by Harold Bloom.
Machado de Assis hailed from this South American nation. This country was the home of Jorge Amado and Clarice Lispector who, like Machado, wrote in Portuguese.
Dom Casmurro
Joaquim Machado de Assis
Brazil &lt;EJW&gt;
This work’s author never publicly admitted to writing it, using the pseudonym Conny Keyber to publish it. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which it is revealed that the title character is a cunning former prostitute, manipulating Squire Booby into falling for her so she can steal his fortune - and telling us all of this in epistolary fashion.
Shamela was Henry Fielding’s parody of this author’s novel Pamela. This author described his title heroine enduring continual harassment from her boss Mr. B, and having her “virtue rewarded” by marrying him.
This novel is also sometimes considered a response to Pamela, due to its subtitle “The Misfortunes of Virtue”. In this novel, Thérèse tells her scandalous life story to Madame de Lorsagne before getting struck by lightning.
An Apology for the Life of Mrs. Shamela Andrews
Samuel Richardson
Justine [by the Marquis de Sade] &lt;EJW&gt;
In one scene in this novel, the protagonist shoves a copy of <em>Corinne</em> down the throat of a wolf trying to attack him and Anna in their sledge. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. In this work, Margareta Samzelius rescues the title priest who has been defrocked for alcoholism and brings him to her manor, Ekeby, where he leads a band of twelve cavaliers into various hijinks.
Gösta Berling’s Saga was the debut novel by this Swedish author who went on to write The Wonderful Adventures of Nils, and won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1909.
A more rogue work by Lagerlöf is Thy Soul Shall Bear Witness!, a novel teaching the reader how to avoid this disease. Helen Burns dies of this disease in Jane Eyre, after spending several chapters ominously coughing up blood.
Gösta Berling’s Saga
Selma Ottilia Lovisa Lagerlöf
tuberculosis [or TB] &lt;EJW&gt;
This couple are obliquely mentioned in Kurt Vonnegut’s <em>Breakfast of Champions</em>, during a post-coital discussion of the electric chair. For 10 points each:
Name this American couple executed for spying for the USSR in 1953. The opening line of The Bell Jar refers to a “queer, sultry summer, the year they electrocuted [this couple]”.
The ghost of Ethel Rosenberg appears several times in this play, judging the lawyer Roy Cohn for hoarding AZT drugs and later praying a kaddish for Cohn alongside Prior Walter’s ex-boyfriend Louis Ironson.
The Rosenbergs are also fictionalised as “Paul and Rochelle Isaacson” in The Book of Daniel, by this author. This author wrote about mobsters Otto Berman and Dutch Schultz mentoring the title child in Billy Bathgate.
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg
Angels in America
E.L. Doctorow &lt;EJW&gt;
The appearance of these figures at the end of <em>Return of the King</em> is often cited as an egregious example of a deus ex machina by readers who didn’t realise that the story was about the journey, not the destination. For 10 points each:
In Tolkien’s work, this race of birds always seems to turn up exactly when needed, be it to rescue Gandalf from Orthanc, defeat the Orcs attacking the Lonely Mountain or stop Morgoth crushing Fingolfin’s body.
This is the mightiest of the Eagles in The Lord of the Rings, and also the presumed King of the Eagles in The Hobbit. This eagle mainly acts as Gandalf’s personal taxi service.
This is the original leader of the Eagles in The Silmarillion. It has a wingspan of 30 fathoms, or 180 feet.
Eagles
Gwaihir [GWHY-here] the Windlord
Thorondor &lt;SC&gt;
Even if dogs are man’s best friend, there sure are a lot of cats in literature. For 10 points each:
This Bulgakov novel features Behemoth, an enormous demonic black cat who can speak, walk on two legs, and transform to human shape. Like any true gentleman, he enjoys chess, vodka, pistols and sarcasm.
This best-selling German novel by Akif Pirinçci features a cat named Francis investigating the murders of several other cats. The 1994 film adaptation set a new record for the most expensive German animation project.
This Japanese novel opens with Kumiko tasking her unemployed husband Toru Okada with finding their missing cat, who shares a name with Kumiko’s brother until being renamed Mackerel by Toru.
The Master and Margarita
Felidae
The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle &lt;SR&gt;
In this story, the central character borrows two dollars from his mother so that he is able to buy a gun from Mistah Joe. For 10 points each:
Name this short story which sees an agricultural labourer escape on the back of a train, because he fears the consequences after he shoots a mule belonging to Old Man Hawkins.
The Man Who Was Almost a Man was published posthumously in this author’s collection 8 Men. This author is best known for writing a novel about Bigger Thomas’ life in the South Side of Chicago.
Wright was born, and based most of his work, in this Southern US state, which was also a popular setting for the novels of William Faulkner.
The Man Who Was Almost a Man [accept Almos’ a Man]
Richard Wright [the novel is Native Son]
Mississippi &lt;Theo&gt;
“Oh! There is blessing in this gentle breeze.” For 10 points each, answer some questions on a poem:
The narrator of this poem separately scales Snowdon, and after stealing a boat is chased by a “grim shape” as he experiences a “troubled pleasure”. This autobiographical poem was subtitled The Growth of a Poet’s Mind.
This poet of The Prelude was born in Cockermouth in 1770 and collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.
“The labouring time of autumn, winter, spring, / Eight months! rolled pleasingly away” during this book of The Prelude. Moving on from his “Childhood and School-Time”, Wordsworth adopts a lighter tone in this book.
The Prelude
William Wordsworth
Residence at Cambridge &lt;LC&gt;
This author advised “in one word, be a saint” as the last of his collection of 300 maxims, known as <em>The Art of Worldly Wisdom</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this conceptismo author of a pessimistic novel about the travels of Critilo, the Criticon.
The opening scene of Criticon, in which Critilo is shipwrecked on a desert island and meets the uncivilised man Andrenio, is believed to have inspired this most famous novel by Daniel Defoe.
Gracian’s works are usually considered part of this broad literary period, which also included the feud between Luis de Gongora and Francisco de Quevedo, as well as the numerous plays of Lope de Vega and Calderon de la Barca.
Baltasar Gracian
Robinson Crusoe
Spanish Golden Age [or Siglo de Oro, prompt on partial] &lt;JK&gt;
The conclusion of one of this poet’s poems asks “Creatures of a day! What is anyone? / What is anyone not?”. For 10 points each:
Name this Ancient Greek lyric poet, best known for celebrating athletic prowess in his Olympian and Isthmian victory odes. He stated “I deplore the lot of tyrants” in a poem concerning Hieron of Syracuse.
Pindar’s eighth Olympian ode includes a lengthy digression about the construction of walls in this city, which is the principal setting of the war described in the Iliad.
This other Greek lyric poet, whose works are mostly known from a single papyrus discovered in 1896, is often considered a rival of Pindar. His third victory ode also celebrates Hieron’s chariot ability at the games.
Pindar
Troy [or Ilium or Ilion]
Bacchylides &lt;JK&gt;
In this story, it is said that a child’s inherited warrior spirit allows him to ford a river in a forest, but that warrior’s spirit fails him, causing him to run away from a rabbit and get lost. For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which a child follows retreating soldiers in the American Civil War, ultimately leading him to his family’s farm which has caught fire, which he didn’t notice because the child was deaf-mute.
This story by the author of “Chickamauga” sees Peyton Farquhar hallucinate his escape from being hanged, after he tampered with the railway of the title structure during the Civil War.
“Chickamauga” and “An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge” were written by this American satirist, known for writing about a chess-playing robot in Moxon’s Master and for writing The Devil’s Dictionary.
“Chickamauga”
“An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge”
Ambrose Bierce &lt;Theo&gt;
For 10 points each, name some authors who created fictional Cambridge colleges:
All Saints' College, modelled on the other place's All Souls' College, features in this man’s novel The Green Man, in which an innkeeper is haunted by Thomas Underhill, a one-time fellow of the college.
Skullion is a head porter who contrives to become Master of the fictional college of Porterhouse in the novel Porterhouse Blue, by this author of Wilt and Riotous Assembly.
Fellows at a fictional college created by this author include Roy Calvert, a scholar of Sogdian Manichaeism. The unnamed college is geographically similar to Christ's, where this author completed a PhD in physics.
Kingsley Amis [prompt on Amis, do not accept “Martin Amis”]
Tom Sharpe
C.P. Snow &lt;HO&gt;
This character’s mother successfully executes a scheme to have her catch a cold and be forced to stay at Netherfield. For 10 points each:
Name this kind, intelligent and all-round lovely character, who falls for Caroline’s brother Charles at a party at Meryton. She finally marries him after sorting out her little sister’s problem with George Wickham.
Jane Bennet is the elder sister of Elizabeth Bennet, who eventually gets together with the curmudgeonly Mr Darcy in this romantic Regency novel.
Another character that Austen just happened to give her name to was the beautiful and talented Jane Fairfax from Emma, an orphan who was taken in and given an impressive education by this man and his wife.
Jane Bennet [prompt on Bennet]
Pride and Prejudice
Colonel Campbell &lt;EJW&gt;
A Cambridge lecture about this play was criticized in <em>The</em> <em>Daily Mail</em> under the headline “Alas, poor Snowflakes!” For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which Lavinia holds a stick in her mouth to write out the names of her rapists Chiron and Demetrius.
In The Guardian, Ian Burrows defended his use of these tools in that lecture on sexual assault in drama. These tools are intended to alert students to discussions which might be difficult for trauma victims.
Ian Burrows compared Titus Andronicus to this Sarah Kane play about the relationship between a young woman and a tabloid journalist in a war-torn Leeds. The Daily Mail described it as “a disgusting feast of filth.”
Titus Andronicus
trigger warnings [accept content warnings, content notes]
Blasted &lt;Tom&gt;
This author described wandering around a dank forest with his lover in the poem <em>Rain in the Pinewood</em>, part of his collection <em>Halcyon</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian Decadent author, whose novels include The Triumph of Death. That novel’s references to the Nietzschean superman foreshadow this author’s later support of the Fascists.
One play by d’Annunzio is titled for this classic literary character, who, both in the play and the work on which it is based, is killed by her husband Giovanni after sleeping with his brother Paolo Malatesta.
This poet, whom Giacomo Leopardi referred to as the “glorious father of Tuscan verse”, first introduced the character of Francesca da Rimini in his poem Inferno.
Gabriele d’Annunzio
Francesca da Rimini
Dante Alighieri (accept either part) &lt;JK&gt;
“All women become like their mothers. That’s their tragedy. No man does. That’s his.” For 10 points each, answer some questions on Oscar Wilde’s women:
While Gwendolyn may be doomed to become like Lady Bracknell in The Importance of Being Earnest, this Roman-inspired first name of Miss Prism might suggest she is set for happier days.
In another Wilde play, Lady Windermere is seen preparing for her coming-of-age birthday ball. When Lord Darlington pays her a visit, she shows him this lovely title object of the play, which her husband has bought her.
Wilde wrote Salome with this actress in mind for the lead, although it was banned by British censors before it could be performed. She was also the first woman to play Hamlet on film.
Laetitia
Fan
Sarah Bernhardt &lt;LC&gt;
This poem describes the racism faced by its author, including the comment ‘“Their colour is a diabolic dye”’. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which opens “Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land”, and describes the author’s title journey.
That poem is a work by this poet, the first female African-American whose works were published. Her works including “To His Excellency George Washington” were published in Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral.
In 1768, Wheatley wrote To The King’s Most Excellent Majesty, written in honour of this British king’s repeal of the Stamp Acts. American opinions on this king rather changed during the Revolutionary War.
“On Being Brought from Africa to America”
Phillis Wheatley
George III &lt;JK&gt; NOTE: DESCRIPTION ACCEPTABLE FOR THE FIRST PART OF THIS BONUS
This work’s title character describes seeing “freely under all the heavens” to his son Walter, explaining that “the corn grows in long, beautiful valleys and the land looks like a garden.” For 10 points each:
Name this work about the rivalry between the tyrant Gessler and the title character. The title character ultimately shoots Gessler with a bow and arrow, upon which the liberated peasants call him their “shield and saviour”.
Wilhelm Tell is a play by this German author, a Weimar Classicist like his friend Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.
This other Schiller play was left as an incomplete fragment upon his death. This play is based on the life of the title character, who was briefly Russian Tsar in 1604, and declares to the Polish diet that he is the son of Ivan the Terrible.
Wilhelm Tell [accept William Tell]
Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller
Demetrius &lt;LC&gt;
Mark Twain famously said that he came in with this object in 1835, and that he expected to go out with it in 1910, which he indeed did. For 10 points each:
Name this celestial object, which is visible from Earth roughly every 76 years.
This astronomer’s life was also appropriately bookended by Halley’s comet from 1835 to 1910. Though he was key in reinterpreting Eudoxus’ work, he is now best remembered for alleged ‘canals’ he saw on the surface of Mars.
This French author’s life was similarly bookended, though from 1910 to 1986. After an early life of vagabondage, he settled down to write plays like The Maids and The Balcony.
Halley’s Comet [accept 1P/Halley]
Giovanni Schiaparelli
Jean Genet &lt;JK&gt;
In this poem, its author seemed to prophesy his own death with lines like “I must first be lost in fatal tides”. For 10 points each:
Name this poem inspired by Emil Oppfer, which opens by describing how “above the fresh ruffles of the surf, bright striped urchins flay each other with sand” and ends “it is the unbetrayable reply/whose accent no farewell can know”.
Voyages is a poem by this American poet, who attempted to outdo TS Eliot’s The Waste Land in his own masterpiece, The Bridge.
The Bridge is titled in honour of a real-life bridge, which connects Manhattan to this most populous borough of New York. Walt Whitman described “crossing” this area’s “ferry” in an earlier poem.
Voyages [accept specific parts of the poem, I-VI, as long as Voyages is mentioned]
Hart Crane (prompt on Crane; do not accept Stephen Crane)
Brooklyn Bridge &lt;JK&gt;
Historical events that feature in this novel include the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 and the insurgency in Kashmir. For 10 points each:
Name this novel which follows the activist Tilo and the hijra Anjum, the latter of whom creates the Jannat Guest House in a graveyard in Delhi.
In this other novel by the author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, set mostly in Kerala, Sophie Mol drowns while on a boat with the twins Estha and Rahel, who commit incest at the end of this novel.
The God of Small Things and The Ministry of Utmost Happiness are the only two novels written by this Indian author, who devoted much of the 20 years between their publication to controversial political advocacy.
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness
The God of Small Things
Arundhati Roy &lt;KV&gt;
While this man only had one attempt at filmmaking, Michael Colgan was more successful in bringing his 19 plays to the screen. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish playwright of the “Theatre of the Absurd”. In Colgan’s series, Barry McGovern and Johnny Murphy played Vladimir and Estragon, characters from this writer’s Waiting for Godot.
This character from another Beckett work was portrayed by David Thewlis on film. He was taken in as a child by the blind Hamm, played by Michael Gambon, and is unable to sit down.
While originally written for Patrick Magee, John Hurt took on the title role in this one-act play by Beckett. It is set on the character’s 69th birthday, which he spends giving his thoughts on the last 12 months.
Samuel Barclay Beckett
Clov
Krapp’s Last Tape &lt;LC&gt;
This poet lamented that love “empties, in its fierce craziness, every soul that it attracts!” in his poem <em>Love</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this nineteenth-century author of On The Death of Goethe, The Ball, and The Gypsy, who is considered one of the greatest Russian elegiac poets.
In a Baratynsky poem titled for this period of the year, he notes that “in the end / you contemplate a sterile thicket / alone with misery”. Another poem about this period describes it as a “close bosom-friend of the maturing Sun”.
Baratynsky’s Autumn is probably a response to a similar poem by this other poet, a good friend of his. His better-known poetic works include Ruslan and Ludmila, Boris Godunov and The Bronze Horseman.
Yevgeny Baratynsky
Autumn [or Fall, I suppose; don’t accept or prompt on anything else]
Alexander Pushkin &lt;JK&gt;
Supervisions can get quite dull, so let’s learn a thing or two from Willy Russell. For 10 points each, test your knowledge on the reading matter in <em>Educating Rita</em>:
Rita tells Frank she changed her name after reading this book to pay homage to its author, Rita Mae Brown. A reflection on her sexual experiences as a lesbian, this book’s title refers to female genitalia.
To solve the staging difficulties of this Ibsen play, Rita suggests they “do it on the radio”. While her customer thinks it is a perm lotion, Rita claims this play with music by Grieg is about the meaning of life.
After taking this book off Frank’s shelf, Rita thinks “it sounds filthy”. She asks if “Mr E.M. Bleedin’ Foster” was a “really frustrated electrician” as he keeps repeating the phrase “only connect”.
Rubyfruit Jungle
Peer Gynt
Howards End [accept Howards bleedin’ End] &lt;LC&gt;
Two films released in 1997 were inspired by events surrounding photographs taken by Elsie Wright and Frances Griffiths in 1917. For 10 points each:
Images of these specific objects are now on display at the National Science and Media Museum in Bradford. Elsie’s mother was convinced of their authenticity by the Theosophist, Edward Gardner.
In those films, Edward Hardwicke and Peter O’Toole played this spiritualist who was fascinated by the pictures. This author’s most famous character has been played onscreen by Basil Rathbone and Benedict Cumberbatch.
Doyle had been commissioned by this magazine to write an article on fairies for its Christmas issue. He included two of the prints which ensured this magazine sold-out within days of publication.
The Cottingley Fairies [prompt on fairies]
Sir Arthur Ignatius Conan Doyle
The Strand Magazine &lt;LC&gt;
Variously attributed to Caedmon and Cynewulf, this poem is primarily preserved in the Vercelli Codex, and is thought to be one of the oldest surviving in the Old English corpus. For 10 points each:
Name this poem. Its first section describes the narrator’s vision of the Cross, while its second part describes Christ’s crucifixion from the perspective of the cross itself.
Predating any Old English manuscripts, this large eighth-century stone cross, named for the Scottish border town where it still stands, is believed to independently preserve part of The Dream of the Rood.
The attribution of the poem to Caedmon is based primarily on circumstantial evidence in the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, a work by this “venerable” monk of Jarrow.
The Dream of the Rood
Ruthwell Cross
The Venerable Bede &lt;JK&gt;
This author’s article about the “White Saviour Industrial Complex” led to a very public disagreement with Nicholas Kristof. For 10 points each:
Name this American author. His work includes the novels Open City and Every Day is for the Thief, as well as the essay collection Known and Strange Things.
Teju Cole’s parents and many of his protagonists are immigrants from this African country. Cole is currently working on a non-fiction collection about life in this country, titled Radio Lagos.
Open City follows the psychiatrist Julius as he walks around this US city. Colson Whitehead’s The Intuitionist is set in a fantastical version of this city, which is where Kavalier and Clay escape to in a Michael Chabon novel.
Teju Cole
Nigeria
New York City &lt;EJW&gt;
The folks at the Oxford English Dictionary have some curious ideas of what the yutes on da street are saying. For 10 points each, name some entries on their 2017 Words of the Year shortlist:
This word, which was selected as the Word of the Year, refers to a significant political change resulting from the actions of young people. Usage peaked during the British and New Zealand General Elections.
This word, popularised with regard to a Starbucks frappuccino, describes an item of food decorated with ‘rainbow colours and glitter, etc.’. It more usually refers to a mythical creature, whose horn was alleged to heal sickness.
Coined in May 2017, this word describes the worrying trend of wearing hardy outdoor clothes in everyday social situations. This word derives from a term referring to the ingredients of trail mix.
youthquake
unicorn
gorpcore [from ‘Granola, oats, raisins and peanuts’, apparently - although this is a folk etymology] &lt;JK&gt;
In Bavaria, curses called <em>bann</em> that summoned these animals could be countered with apotropaic charms called <em>segen</em>, though sellers were often accused of turning into these animals themselves. For 10 points each:
The 1589 case of Peter Stumpp sparked much interest in people who turn into this animal, and the idea of their weakness to silver emerged soon after. Jacob Grimm recorded superstitions that all such people have unibrows.
A town in this country was terrorized by a massive, homicidal wolf from 1764 to 1767. Other beasts from this country’s folklore and include the Tarrasque and the Peluda, and it was the alleged site of the lost city of Ys.
In his Book of Were-Wolves, this author outlined a theory that historical werewolves were in fact people whose “innate craving for blood” had “broken out.” He more respectably wrote hymns like “Onward, Christian Soldiers.”
wolves [also accept Werewolves and singular forms]
France [also accept the French Republic or La République Française]
Sabine Baring-Gould &lt;HO&gt;
W.B. Yeats commented “after us the savage God” after seeing the premiere of one play of which this character is the protagonist. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who is “cuckolded” and “in chains” according to the titles of two absurdist plays in which he appears. This character’s best-known play opens with the deliberately mispronounced word “merdre”.
The play Ubu Roi opens with Ubu leading a revolution in this European country. The novel Quo Vadis?, published the same year as Ubu Roi, was written by Henryk Sienkiewicz [seen-kee-vits], an author from this country.
Alfred Jarry, the creator of Ubu, is one of the few historical figures to appear in this French novelist’s work The Counterfeiters. This man also wrote The Immoralist.
Ubu (Roi/King/Cocu/Cuckolded/Enchaine/In Chains)
Poland
Andre Gide &lt;JK&gt;
After a day of hard labour, it is time to enjoy the finest leisure long-19<sup>th</sup> century England has to offer. For 10 points each:
One might fancy watching or betting on this blood sport that sometimes involved affixing a poor creature with metal spurs. The pits, of which there were seven in Newcastle by 1800, were often extremely crowded.
A popular communal activity at the wakes were these ceremonies. They involved replacing church floors and creating elaborately decorated arrangements up to twelve feet high as a symbol of village solidarity.
Demand rose for these institutions, a hybrid of the public house and the theatre. Examples included the Canterbury and the Oxford, owned by Charles Morton, who was known as the ‘Father’ of these places.
cock-fighting
rushcarts [or rushbearing; prompt on any answer involving Rogationtide]
music halls &lt;LC&gt;
This work has been dubbed the first true “post-Brexit” novel, opening with the referendum result and exploring its effects on the nation’s psyche. For 10 points each:
Identify this 2016 novel about the friendship between 101-year-old Daniel Gluck and his former neighbour Elisabeth Demand, with whom he bonds over their shared appreciation for the pop artist Pauline Boty.
Autumn is a Man Booker-nominated work by this Scottish author, who interwove the perspectives of a modern-day Cambridge schoolgirl and the Renaissance artist Francesco del Cossa in How to be both.
Smith’s breakthrough novel, also Booker shortlisted, is an exploration of grief through the “World” of the staff and guests at one of these places. Jack Torrance accepts a job at one of these places in a Stephen King novel.
Autumn
Ali Smith
hotel &lt;EJW&gt;
At the start of the twentieth century, Chinese literature took off anew as authors began to abandon the old norms of writing. For 10 points each:
A key figure in the literary renaissance was this author, whose vernacular adaptation of Gogol’s Diary of a Madman has a bureaucrat seeing the command to “eat people” in the margins of Chinese classics.
One of the major works which helped to inspire Chinese authors was this American novel about a man who dies after being sold to Simon Legree, which was given the title “The Black Slave’s Cry to Heaven” in translation.
Many new authors and activists involved in the New Culture Movement worked with and read this periodical, whose first title was La Jeunesse. It was founded in 1915 by Chen Duxiu.
Lu Xun [accept Zhou Shuren]
Uncle Tom's Cabin
New Youth [accept Xīn Qīngnián, do not prompt on just Youth] &lt;JS&gt;
Works of this kind, including ‘Riddles Wisely Expounded’, have often been recorded by groups like Steeleye Span. For 10 points each:
Name this traditional British literary form. Works in this form were most notably collected by Francis James Child, and they include ‘Matty Groves’ and ‘The Elfin Knight’.
This Scottish ballad tells of an ill-fated boat journey to Norway undertaken by the title character under the bidding of his king. It features the bad omen of ‘the new moone / with the auld moone in her arm’.
‘Sir Patrick Spens’ was incorporated into the opening lines of Dejection: An Ode by this Romantic poet of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and ‘Kubla Khan’.
Child (popular) ballads (prompt on folk songs or similar)
Sir Patrick Spens (accept Child Ballad No. 58, or Roud Index 41)
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt;JK&gt;
The first play by this writer to be produced concerned Aggie Appleby, a “Maker of Men”, who toughens up the mild-mannered Adoniram Schlump. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright, whose later works included the light comedies Cross Town and There's Wisdom in Women.
Kesselring's best known work is this farce about critic Mortimer Brewster, whose two elderly aunts mix the title substance into wine, and whose brother resembles Boris Karloff owing to plastic surgery.
Another of Mortimer’s brothers in the play is convinced that he is this “Bull Moose” President - and so obsessively digs locks for the Panama Canal and charges upstairs like a Rough Rider.
Joseph Kesselring
Arsenic and Old Lace
Theodore Roosevelt [prompt on Roosevelt] &lt;HO&gt;
A hissing serpent depicted and a snarling dragon reveal a root’s ability to cure snakebite in a decorated example of one of these works. For 10 points each:
Name these scientific texts compiled by writers such as Elizabeth Blackwell. Commonly used by apothecaries, they contain descriptions and illustrations of species such as Helleborus niger.
This botanist author of the Complete Herbal came into conflict with the College of Physicians and was acquitted for allegedly practising witchcraft in 1642.
Amongst the plants described by Culpeper is this herb of the family Asteraceae. While its medicinal uses included scalp treatments, this herb has been paired since the Middle Ages in a popular drink with dandelion.
Herbals
Nicholas Culpeper
Burdock [accept Arctium lappa, gobo, beggar’s buttons, thorny burr, or happy major] &lt;LC&gt;
A cobra, a wolf, a vulture, and a sheep replaced the leads in a poster for a revival of this play at London’s Playhouse Theatre starring Christian Slater. For 10 points each:
Name this play. Richard “Ricky” Roma yells, “give me the fuckin’ Cadillac car that you owe me” at Baylen, and later demands the same of John Williamson in this Pulitzer-Prize winning drama.
The 35-minute first act of David Mamet’s Glengarry Glen Ross takes place in one of these restaurants. The 2017 London revival used red booths and hanging paper lanterns to recreate this sort of establishment.
The play’s use of this surname to describe people who “like to talk to salesmen” and are “deadbeats” is however controversial. Mamet edited the offending lines for a 2004 revival, but the film adaptation included them.
Glengarry Glen Ross
Chinese restaurant [accept China Bowl, the name of the restaurant]
Patel &lt;LC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some works of Victorian literature which comment on temperance:
In this novel, Helen Graham’s brother Mr Lawrence notes that “with some persons, temperance is almost impossible”. Helen’s husband Arthur Huntingdon dies from alcoholism, allowing her to marry Gilbert Markham.
Leonards dies after a fall exacerbates an injury caused by his intemperance and Mr Thornton praises the virtues of sober conduct to Margaret Hale in North and South, a novel by this author of Cranford.
A working class radical named Devilsdust in this novel by the author of Coningsby states, “we shall never get our rights till we leave off consuming exciseable articles; and the best thing to begin with is liquors”.
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
Elizabeth Gaskell
Sibyl, or The Two Nations [accept The Two Nations] &lt;HO&gt;
Accusations regarding this country’s civil war, the subject of several novels by an ex-commander in it, Yasmina Khadra, led to a feud between two of its literary giants, Rachid Boudjedra and Kamel Daoud. For 10 points each:
Name this country, subject of a trilogy by Mohammed Dib and home to Assia Djebar and Malek Haddad. Kamel Daoud is best known for a novel about the brother of a character killed on a beach in this country.
Daoud’s Meursault Counter-Investigation is a response to this Albert Camus novel in which Meursault feels nothing when his mother dies and murders an Arab, whose name Daoud reveals to have been “Musa.”
One of Algeria’s best-known modern authors is this author of the thickly intertextual Memories of the Flesh, part of a trilogy about her hometown, Constantine. She is arguably the world’s most popular female Arab author.
Algeria [or al-jumhūriyyat al-Jazā’iriyyat al-dīmūqrāṭiyyat al-sha‘biyyah]
L’Étranger [or The Stranger; also accept remotely similar translations]
Aḥlām Mosteghānemi &lt;JG&gt;
The first volume of Marcel Proust’s <em>In Search of Lost Time</em> is named for this character’s “Way”. For 10 points each:
Name this character, whose obsession with Odette de Crecy is described in the section “[This Character] in Love”.
In the “Combray” section of Swann’s Way, the narrator describes his childhood walks on two routes: the way by Swann’s house and the way named for this aristocratic family whose members include Madame de Villeparisis and Saint-Loup.
Years after the narrator’s childhood in Combray, his memories of that time are involuntarily evoked, when he eats one of these foodstuffs dipped in tea and everything comes flooding back.
Charles Swann
Guermantes
madeleine [prompt on cake, do not accept or prompt on biscuit] &lt;KV&gt;
It’s not <em>A Midsummer Night’s Dream</em>, but Theseus and Hippolyta figure prominently in this play. For 10 points each:
The title characters fight to win Emilia’s hand in this Jacobean play likely co-written by John Fletcher. Three queens plead with Theseus and Hippolyta to avenge their husbands’ murders by Creon in this play’s opening.
In The Two Noble Kinsmen, some countrymen perform this action for Theseus and Hippolyta. During their preparations, it becomes apparent that one needs a “taborer” and “ribands” to perform this action.
The Prologue to The Two Noble Kinsmen credits this author, because the plot is taken from this Middle English author’s “Knight’s Tale”.
The Two Noble Kinsmen
morris dancing
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;EJJL&gt;
When babies are born with a membrane covering them, which comes from the amniotic sac, they are said to be ‘born in the caul’. Answer some questions about notable caul births.
Some groups claim that holders of this position should be caulbearers. This position is the most important of the lines of tulkus.
Apparently, this Austrian psychoanalyst was also born in a caul. It may have marked him for greatness, as he is well known for writing works like The Interpretation of Dreams.
This person’s caul was raffled off as an amulet against drowning. He is better known for his rivalry with his stepfather Edward Murdstone and Uriah Heep.
Dalai Lama
Sigmund Freud
David Copperfield &lt;JS&gt;
This object is from the “Fides” brand, and is repurchased after a family’s bedsheets are pawned. For 10 points each:
Name this object. This object allows the protagonist of the film in which it appears to gain work distributing advertising posters; that film revolves around Bruno and his father’s search for this object.
Bicycle Thieves is perhaps the best-known work by this Italian director, whose other films include Sciuscia and Umberto D. He often collaborated with Cesare Zavattini.
Along with Roberto Rossellini, De Sica pioneered a genre of film known as the “neo-” type of this wider artistic movement. It generally seeks to portray subjects as truthfully as possible, without artificiality.
The (first) bicycle from Bicycle Thieves [or The Bicycle Thief, or Ladri di bicciclette, accept Antonio’s bicycle or Ricci’s bicycle and word forms; prompt on bicycle, asking for the film]
Vittorio De Sica
(Italian neo-) Realism &lt;JK&gt;
In one poem in his collection <em>Songs of Life and Hope</em>, this poet described Roosevelt as “a Professor of Energy” and “Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar”. For 10 points each:
Name this Nicaraguan author, a pioneer of modernismo whose other poems include Symphony in Gray Major.
This collection by Dario is credited with establishing the modernismo style. It includes sections like “The Lyrical Year”, as well as such characters as Walt Whitman, Queen Mab and Puck.
Dario frequently used this bird as a symbol for both love and for himself, as in a poem where he noted that this bird “only sings just before dying”. WB Yeats discussed wild examples of these birds “at Coole”.
Ruben Dario
Azul… [or Blue…]
swans &lt;JK&gt;
Since Stevens is unlikely to be able to assist in these matters, he needs you to help him out. For 10 points each, answer some questions on history in Kazuo Ishiguro’s <em>The Remains of the Day</em>.
Stevens briefly mentions this politician as having remarked that the silver at Darlington Hall was “probably unrivalled”. Far more interested in the visit of Lord Halifax, he fails to mention this woman’s profession altogether.
In this year, Stevens is interrogated by Lord Darlington’s friends on current affairs. After failing to comment on American debts, he cannot interpret a speech from this year by Laval on the situation in North Africa.
The dining room plays host in Stevens’s manipulated memories to an unofficial conference that he claims could have revised the harshest terms of this treaty, signed following the Paris Peace Conference in 1919.
Nancy Witcher Langhorne, Viscountess Astor
1935
Treaty of Versailles &lt;LC&gt;
A bronze statue of this artist by Philip Jackson now stands in Brompton Barracks in Chatham, although it was originally housed in the main concourse of Waterloo station. For 10 points each:
Name this painter, the official artist for Elizabeth II’s coronation. He is perhaps better known for his anti-Nazi works from World War II, and those of steam locomotives.
In tribute to Cuneo’s trademark, Jackson’s statue featured one of these animals under a book. Beatrix Potter adorned her children’s books with many illustrations of this animal, like on the cover of The Tailor of Gloucester.
Cuneo painted this train designed by Sir Nigel Gresley in three works. It was the first train to reach 100 miles per hour in 1934, and a 2004 NRM campaign to restore this engine confirmed its status as a national treasure.
Terence Tenison Cuneo
mice [accept mouse]
The Flying Scotsman [accept LNER Class A3 then either 1472, 4472, 502, 103, or 60103] &lt;LC&gt;
In a climactic scene set in this town, a note is revealed to contain the addendum “some day, for your sins you will die and go to Hell or [this town] – try and make it the former”. For 10 points each:
Name this town, whose 19 upstanding couples end up squabbling over a sack containing $40,000 in gold coins.
The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg is a short story by this author of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
In the Twain short story The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, a gambler with this forename loses $40 after his pet amphibian is fed lead shot. A slave with this name accompanies Huckleberry Finn on his travels.
Hadleyburg
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Jim (Smiley) &lt;JK&gt;
In this novel, a drunk Ernest Hemingway seeks out the “bastard” who “insulted [his] cojones”. For 10 points each:
Name this novel which describes the efforts of aging writer Kenneth Toomey to help canonise Carlo Campanati. This novel’s opening line describes Kenneth in bed with his catamite on his 81st birthday.
Toomey is said to be based upon this British “first-rate writer of the second rank”, since this man was also homosexual and interested in colonial South-East Asia. This author created Charles Strickland, a fictionalised Gauguin.
Earthly Powers is a work of this British novelist and translator who wrote the Enderby Quartet. This author also created the language Nadsat for use in his novel A Clockwork Orange.
Earthly Powers
William Somerset Maugham
Anthony Burgess [or John Anthony Burgess Wilson] &lt;Theo&gt;
The protagonist of this play angrily dissolves Parliament after refusing to pass a Bill for statutory regulation of the press. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Mike Bartlett, which premiered at the Almeida Theatre in 2014. In this play, the Republican Jess convinces Harry to renounce his family name, and the Duchess of Cambridge plots her husband’s rise to power.
Mike Bartlett is also known for his adaptation of this play by Euripides, which inspired him to write the TV series Doctor Foster. This play’s title character kills her own children after her husband Jason marries Glauce.
Bartlett’s latest work is this play, inspired by The Cherry Orchard, in which Audrey yearns for a romanticised lost England whilst restoring her Oxfordshire childhood home.
King Charles III
Medea
Albion &lt;Tom&gt;
A manuscript of this author’s play <em>The Mother-in-Law</em> may contain one of the only remaining pieces of Ancient Roman music. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman playwright, a freed slave who inspired Moliere’s A School for Husbands with his play Adelphoe. His other works include The Eunuch and The Self-Tormentors.
This play by Terence was the first of his to be performed. At the beginning of this play, Chremes revokes permission for Pamphilus to marry Glycerium, the title character, after the former acts up at a funeral.
This Renaissance writer first ventured into the theatre by adapting Terence’s Andria for the Florentine stage. His later plays include The Mandrake, though he is perhaps better known for political treatises like The Prince.
Terence [accept Publius Terentius Afer; prompt on partial]
Andria [or The Girl from Andros]
Niccolo Machiavelli &lt;JK&gt;
In this story, Ed’s teeth stick out like fangs after drinking rat poison, and he bungles killing himself again when he threatens two people who live “like fugitives”. For 10 points each:
Name this short story, in which four friends in Albuquerque sit around a table drinking gin. Somehow they come onto the topic of the title concept, which may or may not be an absolute.
This author of “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” was nominated for the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his third major-press collection, Cathedral.
In the story, Mel McGinnis holds this specific profession, which sometimes “gives him the right”. After getting his words muddled, he elaborates that “I’m just a mechanic. I go in and I fuck around and I fix things.”
“What We Talk About When We Talk About Love”
Raymond Clevie Carver Jr.
cardiologist [accept heart surgeon, prompt on less specific medical professions] &lt;LC&gt;
Jacobean theatre featured a host of strong female characters that put most contemporary drama to shame. For 10 points each, answer some questions on the “roaring girls” of the 16<sup>th</sup>-century stage:
These two authors dramatised the life of Mary Firth as Moll in The Roaring Girl. While the balance of their authorship has been contested, they both shared a first name.
The story of the “roaring” play The White Devil is loosely based on the murder of Vittoria Accoramboni in 1585. Her surname was changed to Corombona by this author of the play.
Along with Arden of Faversham, the aforementioned plays made up a Roaring Girls season at this Royal Shakespeare Company theatre in 2014. Ben Jonson described Shakespeare as this animal “of Avon”.
Thomas Middleton and Thomas Dekker
John Webster
The Swan Theatre &lt;LC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some German-language authors who left works unfinished upon their deaths:
This author's death from typhus at the age of 23 prevented him from adding a third act to his play Woyzeck, which was later presented in a “finished” version by Karl Emil Franzos.
This Austrian author similarly never managed to write a definitive ending to his novel The Man Without Qualities, with modern editions typically featuring several of his aborted drafts in the appendix.
After this author died of tuberculosis, his friend Max Brod took care of his effects. Among works left unfinished on his death in 1924 were Amerika, The Castle and The Trial.
Georg Büchner
Robert Musil
Franz Kafka &lt;HO&gt;
In <em>Winesburg, Ohio</em>, a character of this occupation is convinced he’ll be lynched when he refuses to perform an autopsy, and tells George Willard “Everyone in the world is Christ and we are all crucified.” For 10 points each:
Name these people. Nick Adams’ father performs a c-section in “Indian Camp” in his capacity as one of these people, and one of these people named T.J. Eckleburg advertises his services in The Great Gatsby.
This Sinclair Lewis novel depicts the title character’s discovery of a plague-destroying phage, albeit too late to save his wife. This novel is often considered the most important literary depiction of American medical education.
This novel by Samuel Shem depicts a hellish internship in the dehumanising title hospital, made survivable by the cynical “laws” of a resident called “the Fat Man,” who also invents a mirror for for examining one’s own anus.
doctors [accept obvious equivalents; also accept oculist or ophthalmologist]
Arrowsmith
The House of God &lt;JG&gt;
Norman Mailer narrated the rise of John F. Kennedy during the 1960 Democratic Convention in Los Angeles in an article for this magazine entitled “Superman Comes to the Supermarket.” For 10 points each:
Name this men’s magazine, which also published Gay Talese’s article “Frank Sinatra Has a Cold.”
Those Esquire articles are considered part of this 1960s and 1970s movement that incorporated techniques of subjective, first-person narration into reporting. Its other proponents included Joan Didion.
The term “New Journalism” was coined in a 1973 anthology by this white-suited author of The Bonfire of the Vanities and The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.
Esquire
New Journalism
Tom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly Wolfe; do not accept or prompt on “Thomas Wolfe,” “Thomas C. Wolfe,” or “Thomas Clayton Wolfe”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This poem was written while its author was recovering from a leg amputation. For 10 points each:
Identify this poem, whose speaker declares that “I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul.”
This Victorian poet wrote “Pro Rege Nostro,” but is almost exclusively known for penning “Invictus.”
The speaker of “Invictus” declares that, “under the bludgeonings of chance / my head is” this three-word condition.
Invictus
William Ernest Henley
bloody, but unbowed &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Conor Thompson&gt;
Shortly before this word is repeated several times, a character asks “Why should a dog or horse or rat have life, but not you?” For 10 points each:
Give this word, which is notably repeated five times in a row in Act 5, Scene 3 of a Shakespeare play, just before the title character dies.
That line comes from the dying speech of this character, which follows the death of his daughter Cordelia. This royal decides to share his inheritance between his other two daughters Goneril and Regan, leading to a tragic sequence of events.
Along with Gloucester’s (GLOSS-tur’s) son Edgar, two noble characters are present when Lear dies, up to the end of the play. Name either of them.
“Never, never, never, never, never”
King Lear
Duke of Albany or the Earl of Kent &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
Since the person entrusted with erasing a manuscript of this author’s plays apparently got tired halfway through, his plays beginning with letters towards the start of the alphabet are worse-preserved than those later in the alphabet. For 10 points each:
Name this early Roman comic playwright, who wrote The Pot of Gold and Menaechmi, both including large numbers of stock characters.
One of Plautus’s comedies is titled for an overconfident member of this profession called Pyrgopolynices (PEER-go-poly-NEE-seez), who ends up being beaten towards the end of that play after he keeps Philocomasium (FYE-lo-ko-MAH-see-um) imprisoned in his house.
This other play by Plautus centres on the pimp Labrax, who ends up accidentally delivering a slave prostitute to her own father. It also features a delusional fisherman, who intends to found a city in his own name after catching a large trunk in his net.
Titus Maccius Plautus
Braggart Soldier [or miles gloriosus]
Rope [or  Rudens] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
This man’s son described him as a “clever, disappointed man,” who, though he introduced his son to poetry, was ultimately frustrated by his job as an English teacher in Wales. For 10 points each:
Identify this man. He inspired a poem that describes how this person’s “blind eyes could blaze like meteors.”
That poem, “Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night,” is in this poetic form of nineteen lines, typically including two refrains. “One Art,” by Elizabeth Bishop, is also in this form.
Another Thomas poem opines that this entity “shall have no dominion.” A Yeats (YATES) poem opening “I know that I shall meet my fate” is titled for an Irish airman who foresees this thing.
Dylan Thomas’s father [or David John Thomas; prompt on Thomas]
villanelle
his death &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
While in Argentina, the protagonist of this book writes letters to his friends and family claiming that all Germans in Buenos Aires are all soccer players, psychoanalysts, or cigarette girls. For 10 points each:
Name this verse novel by Anne Carson that loosely adapts fragments by Stesichorus (STESS-ih-KOR-us) to tell of a romance between Geryon and Herakles.
In Autobiography of Red, Herakles and Ancash’s quest to record the sounds of volcanoes was inspired by a poem by this writer that ends “The only secret people keep / Is Immortality.” She also wrote that “Hope is the thing with feathers.”
The introduction to Autobiography of Red notes that Stesichorus came “after Homer and before” this poet, which was “a difficult interval for a poet.” She wrote Tender Buttons.
Autobiography of Red
Emily Dickinson
Gertrude Stein &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
The title character of this story tries to kill herself with twenty tablets of Veronal; after waking up two days later, she shares a drink with her maid, Nettie. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Hazel Morse struggles with alcoholism and depression at Jimmy’s bar.
“Big Blonde” is a short story by this author. She wrote book reviews as Constant Reader and was known for her cutting remarks as a member of the Algonquin Round Table.
Hazel Morse’s husband Herbie moved to this city for a job in “Big Blonde.” The economic migrants in Harriette Arnow’s The Dollmaker find industrial work in this city’s auto plants.
“Big Blonde”
Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]
Detroit &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
A character created by this author cries in the bathroom after his bride first returns to his house, since she immediately started throwing his books on the floor. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who in that novel wrote of Peter Kien, a retiring philologist whose obsession with his 25,000-volume private library eventually leads to him going mad, and burning both his books and his wife in a massive fire.
In another instance of literary immolation, following the Lisbon earthquake, Dr. Pangloss appears to have been killed in an auto-da-fé in this novella by Voltaire. The title character seeks out “the best of all possible worlds,” but is continually stymied.
This author adapted the legend of Joan of Arc’s burning at the stake in an 1801 tragedy. He wrote Don Carlos and The Robbers.
Elias Canetti
Candide
Friedrich Schiller &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
A novel by this author interweaves the narrative of the recently-bereaved British teenager George and the narrative of the Renaissance fresco painter Francesco del Cossa. For 10 points each:
Name this Scottish author whose Booker Prize-nominated novels include How to be Both and a 2016 novel about centenarian songwriter Daniel Gluck.
That latter novel by Smith, which has been called the first post-Brexit novel, has this title. This season is also the subject of a Keats ode, which describes it as the “season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close bosom-friend of the maturing sun.”
The Brexit vote also inspired the play My Country: A Work in Progress by this Scottish poet and playwright. Her poetry collections include The World’s Wife, and she is the current British Poet Laureate.
Ali Smith
Autumn [do not accept or prompt on “Fall”]
Carol Ann Duffy &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
In a story titled for these things, the protagonist recalls that, when her husband was first brought home drunk, these things were in his button-hole. For 10 points each:
Name these items. A man carrying that husband’s dead body on a stretcher knocks these things over near the end of a story in which his wife searches for him at the Rigleys’ house.
In this story, Paul rides frantically on the title toy to predict races in his quest to be lucky. At its end, he dies after correctly picking Malabar and making his mother rich.
Both “The Odour of Chrysanthemums” and “The Rocking-Horse Winner” are stories by this British author of Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
chrysanthemums [or “The Odour of Chrysanthemums”; prompt on flowers]
“The Rocking-Horse Winner”
D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Tim Morrison&gt;
This chapter comes after a section where the novel’s protagonist laments the fleeting nature of life, titled “Illusion.” For 10 points each:
Name this blank chapter from The Tale of Genji, thought to imply its protagonist’s death.
The Tale of Genji was written by this Heian (HAY-on)-era lady-in-waiting, known also for her poetry and her diary. She was granted her royal position because of her notoriety as a writer.
This other Heian-era book collects the observations of Sei Shōnagon. It contains the sections “hateful things” and “things of beauty.”
“Vanished into the Clouds” [or “Kumogakure”]
Murasaki Shikibu [or Lady Murasaki; or Fujiwara no Takako]
The Pillow Book [or Makura no Sōshi] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This man is warned by David of Doncaster not to go to an archery contest. For 10 points each:
Name this folk hero who robbed from the rich and gave to the poor.
This character, sometimes cited as Robin’s nephew, warns Robin Hood not to go to Church Lees, where Robin is killed.
In “Robin Hood and the Pedlar,” Robin vomits medicine all over Will Scarlet as well as this other Merry Man who is most commonly cited as the only one present for Robin Hood’s death.
Robin Hood
Will Scarlet [or Will Scarlock; or Will Scadlock; or Will Scathelocke; or Will Scatheloke; or Will Shacklock; prompt on Will]
Little John [prompt on John] &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
At the end of this poem, the speaker asks “why do you beckon me with your hand?” and says “for one moment of peace / I would give the peace of the tomb.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which begins “I have lit my treasured candles, / one by one, to hallow this night” and asks “what have poets, in any case, to do with sin?”
“Poem without a Hero” was written by this Russian poet of Requiem.
Akhmatova wrote “Poem Without a Hero” to commemorate those who died in her country during this war. Akhmatova remained in Leningrad during a 900-day siege in this war.
“Poem without a Hero” [or poema byez geroya; or other plausible translations such as (a/the) poem without (a/the) hero(es)]
Anna Akhmatova (ahkh-MAH-tuh-vuh) [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko (gur-YEN-kuh)]
World War II [or Velikaya Otechestvennaya voyna; or Great Patriotic War] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This character is the subject of gossip by the free-spirited Dorimant, the heiress Harriet and the old flame Mrs. Loveit. For 10 points each:
Name this fashionable man-about-town who is the title character of George Etheredge’s play The Man of Mode.
This contemporary to George Etheredge coined the phrase “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned” in his play The Mourning Bride, and also introduced the lovers Mirabell and Millamant in The Way of the World.
In a plot worthy of one of his plays, Etheredge retired from writing, lost his fortune through participation in this activity, and then married a wealthy widow. This activity is the ruin of Alexei Ivanovich in a Dostoyevsky novella and Hermann in a Pushkin short story.
Sir Fopling Flutter [or Flutter]
William Congreve
gambling [or playing cards; or playing roulette; or playing spades] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
Answer the following about lotteries in literature, for 10 points each.
This author’s short story “The Lottery” ends with Tessie being stoned to death.
The title character of this novel ends up being handcuffed to Marcus’s corpse in Death Valley after his relationship with Trina turns sour when she wins 5,000 dollars in the lottery.
A hairdresser wins 8,500 dollars in the lottery but decides to do good deeds with the money in the play Sheppey, which was written by this author whose other dramas include The Circle and The Letter.
Shirley Hardie Jackson
McTeague
William Somerset Maugham (mawm) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Kurtis Droge&gt;
This action is performed by the companion of Dr. Messinger after Messinger falls over a waterfall. For 10 points each:
Name this action repeatedly performed by a man in the house of Mr. Todd. Todd drugs a man who performs this action and sends his watch back to England so that he will have to perform this action into perpetuity.
Tony Last is forced to read Dickens in a remote village in South America at the end of this novel, meaning that Tony’s ancestral home of Hetton will be inherited by his cousins.
This author of Brideshead Revisited wrote A Handful of Dust.
reading Dickens [or equivalents such as reading aloud the novels of Charles Dickens]
A Handful of Dust
Evelyn Waugh (wah) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Kurtis Droge&gt;
This man is described as “Fam’d for thy valour, for thy virtues more.” For 10 points each:
Name this “great chief, with virtue on thy side” who is said to deserve “A crown, a mansion, and a throne that shine” in a poem beginning “Celestial choir! enthron’d in realms of light.”
This author of “His Excellency General Washington” also wrote of her conversion to Christianity during the slave trade in “On Being Brought from Africa to America.”
Washington wrote a letter in reply to Wheatley’s poem while headquartered in this city from 1775 to 1776. Washington’s house here was later occupied by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow while Longfellow was teaching in this city.
George Washington [or His Excellency General Washington]
Phillis Wheatley
Cambridge, Massachusetts &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
Answer the following about mice in British poetry, for 10 points each:
Anna Barbauld’s poem “The Mouse’s Petition” describes the title creature’s “pensive prisoner’s prayer” intended to a scientist with this surname. A ghoulish investigator visits the Birling family to discuss a suicide in a much later play by an author with this surname.
This poet of “Whoso List to Hunt” and “They Flee to Me” discussed the town mouse and the country mouse in “Of the Mean and Sure Estate.” This poet may have been a lover of Anne Boleyn, and he introduced the sonnet into England.
John Betjeman’s (BETCH-uh-min’s) “Diary of a Country Mouse” was one of a number of popular poems he wrote before he was appointed to this office, in which he was succeeded by Ted Hughes.
Priestley [or J. B. Priestley; or Joseph Priestley]
Thomas Wyatt
Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This author wrote a trilogy that contained <em>With Fire and Sword</em> and <em>Fire in the Steppe</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote The Deluge.
In Quo Vadis, Sienkiewicz wrote about this Christian who, while leaving Rome, was met by Jesus, then returned to Rome to be martyred.
In Quo Vadis, Ursus chokes this kind of animal to death. Lygia was strapped to the back of this animal while nude. People fight these animals in Death in the Afternoon.
Henryk Sienkiewicz (shen-k’YEH-veetch) [Henryk Adam Aleksander Pius Sienkiewicz]
Saint Peter [or Simon Peter; or Simeon]
bull [prompt on cattle; prompt on cow] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
A 2017 article criticized this literary magazine for omitting Brigid Hughes from its masthead’s list of former editors. For 10 points each:
Name this literary magazine from which Lorin Stein resigned as editor in late 2017.
The Paris Review was edited for its first thirty years by this author, who wrote many so-called “participatory novels,” such as Paper Lion, in which he played for the Detroit Lions.
In this man’s novel Exit Ghost, George Plimpton publishes the writing of this author’s character Nathan Zuckerman. He also wrote Portnoy’s Complaint.
The Paris Review
George Plimpton [George Ames Plimpton]
Philip Roth [Philip Milton Roth] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
Up to fifteen high Roman officials had no other job but to protect these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these collections of utterances in hexameter (hex-AM-uh-ter), three of which remained after their original owner burned six during negotiations over their cost.
This Roman king foolishly attempted to drive down the price of the Sibylline Books. He was overthrown after his son raped Lucretia.
The Sibyl of this city sold the books to Tarquinius and guided Aeneas into the underworld.
Sibylline Books [or Sibyl’s books]
Lucius Tarquinius Superbus [or Tarquin the Proud; prompt on Tarquinius]
Cumae [or Cumaean Sibyl] &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This character has his armpit hairs plucked one by one. For 10 points each:
Name this chieftain, the father of 63 children at the age of 62, whose main wife is Sadiku and who pursues the young Sidi.
Baroka is the title “animal” of this play. He competes with the Western-educated teacher Lakunle to marry the aforementioned beautiful woman, who he ultimately adds to his harem.
The Lion and the Jewel was written by this Nigerian Nobel laureate, the author of Death and the King’s Horseman.
Baroka [prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, the lion]
The Lion and the Jewel
Wole Soyinka (WALL-ay SHOW-ying-ka) [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
In this novel, a man first lays eyes on his mistress when he sees her eating a raw egg in a stairwell as he is going to visit the sickly Mr. Estupiña (ess-too-PEEN-yah). For 10 points each:
Name this realist novel by Benito Pérez Galdós which describes the relationship of Juanito with his two “wives” of differing classes.
Fortunata and Jacinta is mostly set in this capital city. At the end of another novel, Jake finds Brett in this city, where she has been abandoned by Romero.
In Pérez Galdós’s novel Marianela, tragedy ensues after a man is cured of this condition. In a 1995 novel, the “doctor’s wife” is the only person not suddenly struck by this condition.
Fortunata and Jacinta [or Fortunata y Jacinta]
Madrid
blindness &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This character was fruitlessly pursued by Widow Wadman for eleven years before he realizes her attraction to him. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose injury at the Siege of Namur led him to his hobby of rebuilding the battle’s fortifications in his garden with his servant Trim. When provoked by his brother Walter, he would whistle “Lillibullero,” which his nephew described as an “Argumentum Fistulatorium.”
Toby is the uncle of Tristram Shandy, the protagonist of a book by this writer.
In Tristram Shandy, these three words are inscribed on the grave-marker of a parson and are followed in the text by a solid black page. In a Shakespeare play, these words are followed by “I knew him… a fellow of infinite jest.”
Captain Toby Shandy [or Uncle Toby Shandy; prompt on Shandy]
Laurence Sterne
“Alas, poor Yorick!” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This author died of heart failure while in prison, with his memoir being passed on to an editor by lawyer C. C. Clark. For 10 points each:
Name this pseudonymous author of The Confession of a White Widowed Male, which was edited into another text by John Ray, Jr. That memoir begins by describing this man’s Parisian childhood and eventual move to the US to work on perfume advertisements.
Humbert Humbert is sexually attracted to young “nymphets” in this Vladimir Nabokov novel.
Humbert is especially attracted to a girl he refers to as Lolita, who is the daughter of this New England widow. This woman loves Humbert until she discovers his attraction to Lolita, but is killed in a car accident before she can tell anyone.
Humbert Humbert
Lolita
Charlotte Haze [prompt on Haze] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about Cyril Connolly, whose book <em>The Unquiet Grave</em>, written under the pseudonym “Palinurus,” established him as perhaps the most frustrated writer in all of England, for 10 points each:
In Enemies of Promise, Connolly explained his failure to produce a literary masterpiece with a metaphor about weeds growing in a rye-field quoted from this author’s long poem The Village. “Peter Grimes” appears in his collection The Borough.
Connolly was a dedicatee of this British-born writer’s poem “The Fall of Rome.” He also wrote “September 1, 1939.”
A fictionalized version of Connolly rejects a novella that Briony (BRY-nee) Tallis submits to the magazine Horizon in this Ian McEwan (muck-YOO-in) novel, in which Briony tries to set things right after falsely accusing Robbie Turner of raping her cousin Lola.
George Crabbe
W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
Atonement &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This character offers herself as a prize to anyone who can defeat her brother Argalia, though when Ferraguto does so she flees through the Ardennes forest, stopping at the Stream of Love. For 10 points each:
Name this daughter of a king of Cathay, introduced in a poem by Matteo Boiardo.
The Boiardo poem in which Angelica appears is titled for this other character “Innamorato.” A later Italian author wrote a sequel about this character “Furioso.” This character, originally a French soldier who dies at Roncevaux Pass, was introduced to literature in a French “song” titled for him.
This author wrote the sequel Orlando Furioso, and first applied the term “humanism” in the context of the Italian Renaissance.
Angelica
Orlando [or Roland]
Ludovico Ariosto &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
A song about these things begins “Time to gather your arse up off the floor” and says in a parenthetical refrain to have one of these. For 10 points each:
Name this fruit which the character “Pirate” makes into famous breakfasts, having built a “hothouse on the roof” to grow them.
Pirate’s banana breakfasts are the delight of a military compound where some soldiers notice a connection between this man’s sexual escapades and V-2 rocket strikes. This man works for an intelligence agency called ACHTUNG (OK-toong).
“Pirate” and Tyrone Slothrop appear in this novel by Thomas Pynchon. It follows the search for the “Schwarzgerät” (sh’VARTS-guh-rate) and the rocket labeled “00000.”
bananas
Tyrone Slothrop [or Slothrop]
Gravity’s Rainbow &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This writer described being taken to a club of lawyers in London where time was measured by “a wine chronometer (kruh-NOM-uh-ter),” a place which was “the very perfection of quiet absorption of good living good drinking, and good talk.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Paradise of Bachelors and the Tartarus of Maids.”
While the “paradise of bachelors” is in London, the Tartarus of Maids was inspired by a paper mill in this state. The Pequod sets out from Nantucket in this state at the start of Moby-Dick.
“The Paradise of Bachelors and the Tartarus of Maids” and the first published section of Moby Dick, “The Town-Ho’s Story” were published in this monthly magazine. David Foster Wallace first published “A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again” in this magazine.
Herman Melville
Massachusetts
Harper’s Monthly [do not accept or prompt on “Harper’s Bazaar”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
The preface to the first two cantos of this poem mocks a Wordsworth poem for beginning “There is a Thorn – it looks so old.” For 10 points each:
Name this satirical epic poem whose dedication opens “Bob Southey! You’re a poet, poet laureate, / and representative of all the race.”
This Romantic English poet of Manfred wrote Don Juan, both of which contain examples of his namesake style of hero.
In the preface to cantos VI to VIII of Don Juan, Byron criticised the later Marquis of Londonderry saying that he “could not speak English” and comparing him to this dramatic character who delivered lines like “she’s as headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile.”
Don Juan (don JOO-in)
George, Lord Byron
Mrs. Malaprop &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This character first appears talking about the smell of train compartments. For 10 points each:
Name this character, apparently the most successful salesman in the play Glengarry Glen Ross, even though he loses a sale to James Lingk when Lingk becomes unnerved after the break-in.
Roma was created by this playwright and, like many of the other characters in Glengarry, enjoys swearing a lot.
A controversial scene in Glengarry Glen Ross that was cut in later productions features the characters Moss, Aaronow, and Roma disdainfully commenting on trying to sell real estate to a person with this surname, who wouldn’t sign even if “Shiva handed him a million dollars.”
Ricky Roma [or Richard Roma; or Roma]
David Mamet [David Alan Mamet]
Patel &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Men in academic gowns sing an offshoot of this musical genre that developed in Coimbra, which is typically applauded by coughing. For 10 points each:
Name this traditional genre of vocal music developed in Lisbon. During the 20th century, Amália Rodrigues was considered the queen of this genre, which is often mournful in character and accompanied by guitars.
One theory suggests that fado derived in part from lundu, a genre developed largely by slaves in this former Portuguese colony whose cities include Belém (bay-LAYM) and Manaus (muh-NOWSE).
The romanticism of fado is also often compared to morna, a genre from this other former Portuguese colony, an archipelago found west of a similarly named peninsula in Senegal.
fado (FAH-doo)
Brazil
Cape Verde [or Cabo Verde] &lt;The above question is for the category Geography World and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about literature concerning Asian immigrants to America, for 10 points each.
Elaine Castillo’s book America Is Not the Heart is titled after America Is in the Heart, a semi-autobiographical novel about Filipino-American migrant laborers by this writer, who first gained fame for an essay accompanying Norman Rockwell’s Freedom From Want.
Viet Thanh Nguyen’s novel The Sympathizer is about a communist from the north part of this present-day country who moves to Los Angeles, becomes a Hollywood film consultant, and ends up imprisoned again in this country. Nguyen is also an immigrant from this country.
Ruth becomes concerned about her mother Lu Ling’s memory loss in The Bonesetter’s Daughter by this Chinese-American novelist.
Carlos Sampayan Bulosan
Vietnam [or North Vietnam]
Amy Tan &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Characters in this novel briefly reside in the house of a famous Nazi sculptor, and it begins with their studies under Horowitz at the Mozarteum where the narrator strives for “suicide calculated well in advance.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel about a piano virtuoso who plays The Goldberg Variations, and his envious colleagues, that takes the form of an extended interior monologue.
The Loser was written by Thomas Bernhard, a novelist from this country whose other prominent authors include Robert Musil, who wrote about the lead-up to World War I in The Man Without Qualities.
Like many Austrian authors, Bernhard was influenced by this author who wrote about the arrest of Josef K. in The Trial.
The Loser
Austria [Republic of Austria; or Republik Österreich]
Franz Kafka &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Jack Mehr&gt;
Ezra Pound’s translation of this poem opens “May I for my own self song’s truth reckon, / Journey’s jargon.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that survives only in the Exeter Book. The title man describes his isolation and “cold-wetness” while journeying in an elegiac style, before concluding with the single word “Amen.”
As with all the other texts in the Exeter Book, The Seafarer is written in this language, which was used by Caedmon and by the author of Beowulf.
Among the components of the Exeter Book are ninety of these obtuse descriptions of various objects and concepts, which are extensively used in Old English literature. Those in the Exeter Book often incorporate double entendres, as shown by one concerning an “erect” and “hairy” onion.
The Seafarer
Old English [prompt on English]
riddles &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
This woman becomes agitated when she sees a bedroom lit only by a bare lightbulb. For 10 points each:
Name this character who mispronounces a French phrase for “beautiful riverbank” into a mangled version of the phrase for “beautiful dream” while explaining how she lost her ancestral estate to creditors.
Blanche DuBois appears in this Tennessee Williams play, where she moves in with her sister Stella in New Orleans.
In A Streetcar Named Desire, Blanche is raped by this character while her sister goes into labor. He later makes Stella commit her to a mental institution after she has a breakdown from the abuse.
Blanche DuBois [prompt on DuBois]
A Streetcar Named Desire
Stanley Kowalski [or Kowalski] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This character is called “mapface” and “piece of the moon” because of a birthmark he has. For 10 points each:
Name this character with telepathic abilities and a gigantic, always-dripping nose.
Saleem Sinai is a primary character from this Salman Rushdie novel, whose title refers to a group of extraordinary kids born at the time of India’s independence.
Saleem’s tomboyish sister, who is at first referred to as “the monkey,” later becomes a famous member of this profession and changes her surname to match.
Saleem Sinai [prompt on Sinai]
Midnight’s Children
singer [or word forms such as singing; or synonyms such as vocalist; prompt on musician; prompt on entertainer] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
In a poem titled for this person’s character, he is described as someone who “Turns his necessity to glorious gain; / In face of these doth exercise a power / Which is our human nature’s highest dower.” For 10 points each:
Identify this title man in an 1806 poem who is described as “he / Whom every Man in arms should wish to be.”
Wordsworth’s “The Character of the Happy Warrior” was written after the death of this man. This British admiral inspired C. S. Forester’s Hornblower series.
This writer examined the tempestuous relationship between Lord Nelson’s mistress Emma Hamilton and her vulcanologist husband in The Volcano Lover. This author of “On Photography” contrasted content-based and formalist hermeneutics in “Against Interpretation.”
Happy Warrior [or “Character of the Happy Warrior”]
Lord Horatio Nelson
Susan Sontag &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This author wrote about Charles Arrowby, an obsessive playwright who decides to live in seclusion but encounters his first love, in <em>The Sea, the Sea</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who also wrote The Black Prince, The Bell, and Under the Net. As a philosopher, she wrote The Sovereignty of Good, which revived Platonism in analytic moral philosophy.
This other author wrote The Sea, a novel that won the 2005 Man Booker Prize. It narrates the life of art historian Max Morden as he comes to terms with the death of loved ones.
Iris Murdoch and John Banville are both from this country, the birthplace of James Joyce.
Iris Murdoch (MUR-dock) [Jean Iris Murdoch]
John Banville
Republic of Ireland [or Poblacht na hÉireann; do not accept or prompt on “Northern Ireland”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This man wrote a mock-epic about the mythical origin of corn. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Hasty-Pudding, who joined men like David Humphreys, John Trumbull, and Lemuel Hopkins in forming a satirical literary society in the 1780’s.
Barlow was a member of a group known as the “Wits” from this location in New England where the members resided.
Barlow also wrote a 1787 poem about the “vision of” this man, said to be the “mariner who first unfurl’d an eastern banner over the western world” in 1492.
Joel Barlow
Hartford [or Connecticut]
Christopher Columbus [or Cristobal Colon; or Cristoforo Colombo; or The Columbiad] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Kurtis Droge&gt;
This man used a spike hidden in a plate of pasta to escape with Father Balbi from a Venetian prison. For 10 points each:
Name this man whom the Prince de Ligne (PRANCE duh LEEN-yuh) encouraged to publish his memoirs, the Histoire de ma Vie (eest-WAHR duh mah VEE), after hearing how this Italian man had lived a life exciting enough to make him a by-word for promiscuity.
This Hungarian author described how Casanova secretly got back to his life of promiscuity in his novel Casanova in Bolzano. He described a long-awaited reunion in his novel Embers.
Casanova names a restaurant of this kind in Anthony Powell’s (pole’s) A Dance to the Music of Time. Immigrants to London run this kind of restaurant in Timothy Mo’s Sour Sweet.
Giacomo Casanova
Sándor Márai (SHAWN-dor MAH-rye)
Chinese restaurant &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
The speaker of this poem exclaims, “Yet dearly I love you, and would be lov’d fain, But am betroth’d unto your enemy.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the speaker declares “I, / Except you enthrall me, never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me.”
“Batter my Heart, Three Person’d God” is one of the Holy Sonnets by this metaphysical poet, who also wrote “Death Be Not Proud.”
In this other Holy Sonnet, the speaker asks that God “pour new seas in mine eyes… And burn me O Lord, with a fiery zeal / Of thee and thy house, which doth in eating heal.”
“Batter my heart, Three Person’d God” [or Holy Sonnet XIV; accept Divine Sonnet or Divine Meditation for “Holy Sonnet”]
John Donne (dun)
“I am a little world made cunningly” [or Holy Sonnet V; accept Divine Sonnet or Divine Meditation for “Holy Sonnet”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
In one of this author’s stories, Wong Jiazhi (j’yah-JURR) poses as a married woman in order to seduce the collaborator Mr. Yee, whom she plans to assassinate. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese author of Lust, Caution and Love in a Fallen City.
Chang wrote a study of this Classical Chinese novel by Cao Xueqin (TSAO shway-CHEEN) that centers on a boy who is born with a stone in his mouth.
Jia Baoyu (j’yah bao-YEW), the protagonist of Dream of the Red Chamber, shows his idleness by reading this philosophical text, named for its Daoist author who sits dreaming of a butterfly.
Eileen Chang [or Zhang Ailing]
Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]
Zhuangzi (jwong-tzuh) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This supposedly-nocturnal creature wanders from camp to camp, eating the wooden parts of unattended tools. For 10 points each:
Identify this dog-like creature, named for its similarity in appearance to the tools it consumes, with a wedge-shaped head and a long, thin body.
The Axehandle Hound is a “fearsome critter” along with the Hidebehind and the Hugag, originating in “tall tales” told to pass time and mess with newcomers, and is part of the folklore of these people. These people cut down trees and process them into usable timber, sometimes handling transport to sawmills.
The consummate guide to lumberjack folklore is Fearsome Creatures of the Lumberwoods by William Thomas Cox, the first State Forester of this state. A Swedish immigrant in this state “discovered” the Kensington Runestone, which is inscribed with a questionable account of Vikings visiting this state in the fourteenth century.
the Axehandle Hound
lumberjacks [or loggers; or lumberers]
Minnesota &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Northrop Frye argued that this genre was characterized by a movement from <em>pistis</em> to <em>gnosis</em>, or false belief to awareness, in a chapter from <em>The Anatomy of Criticism</em> on “The Mythos of Spring.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre, which Aristotle proposed was derived from the phallic processions of Dionysus. Its varieties include satire and farce.
This author of Dyskolos was the foremost representative of Athenian New Comedy.
This French philosopher wrote that the methods of comedy are repetition, inversion, and reciprocal interference in his essay collection Laughter. This author of Matter and Memory was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for some reason.
comedy
Menander
Henri Bergson [or Henri-Louis Bergson] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This poem says that the dead ask themselves “What do I remember / that was shaped / as this thing is shaped?” For 10 points each:
Name this poem which describes its title plant, which grows in the underworld, as “like a buttercup / upon its branching stem.” In this poem, the author says “all women are not Helen, / I know that, / but have Helen in their hearts.”
“Asphodel, That Greeny Flower” was written by this American poet, who also wrote an epic about his hometown of Paterson.
This Williams poem describes its title object, on which “so much depends,” as “glazed with rain / water / beside the white / chickens.”
“Asphodel, That Greeny Flower”
William Carlos Williams
“The Red Wheelbarrow” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
A poem by this man begins by describing “Alex, the great Alexander.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, whose 1949 poem “Line-Up for Yesterday” features twenty-six stanzas mostly honoring baseball players from A to Z. A representative line notes that “R is for Ruth, to tell you the truth, there’s just no more to be said, just R is for Ruth.”
As a poet, Nash was known for rhyming lines such as a quip saying this foodstuff is “dandy, but liquor is quicker.”
Nash parodies this author with a poem beginning “I think that I shall never see a billboard lovely as a tree.” This man was killed in World War I.
Ogden Nash [Frederic Ogden Nash]
candy
Joyce Kilmer [Alfred Joyce Kilmer] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This writer followed German sergeant Christian Diestl (DEEST’ll) and two American soldiers in his World War II novel <em>The Young Lions</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American writer, whose short stories include “The Girls in Their Summer Dresses.” Aaron Copland wrote incidental music for his play Quiet City.
Commenting on writers’ fear of failure, Shaw said that the ghost of this writer “hangs over every American typewriter.” This man suffered a major commercial failure with a novel narrated by Nick Carraway.
Like Fitzgerald himself, Shaw considered Fitzgerald’s best novel to be Tender is the Night, which follows this man’s decaying marriage to his former patient Nicole.
Irwin Shaw
F. Scott Fitzgerald [Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
Dick Diver [or Richard; or Diver] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This character has a spiritual epiphany in the Sabine Hills on a perfectly peaceful day, before returning home to help bury the family funerary urns. For 10 points each:
Name this title protagonist of a philosophical novel by Walter Pater, who becomes a Stoic after being appointed as amanuensis (uh-MAN-yoo-EN-siss) to Marcus Aurelius.
The preface to Pater’s The Renaissance opens by noting that many attempts have been made to define this term in the abstract. The “Ode on a Grecian Urn” declares that “Truth is” this thing, and this thing truth.
In the conclusion to The Renaissance, Pater writes that to maintain a “hard, gemlike” one of these things “is success in life.” In Urn Burial, Thomas Browne wrote that “Life is a pure” one of these things, “and we live by an invisible Sun within us.”
Marius the Epicurean
beauty
flame &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
This play ends with Chebutykin (cheh-boo-TICK-in) singing “Ta-ra-ra-boom-di-ay” to himself as Olga says “if only we knew.” For 10 points each:
Name this play about the Prozorov family. It begins on the anniversary of the main characters’ father’s death, which also happens to be Irina’s name-day.
At the end of the play The Seagull, this playwright kills himself in the belief that he will never create successful art and that “women never forgive failures.”
The Seagull and Three Sisters were written by this Russian writer. He called medicine his “lawful wife” and literature his “mistress.”
Three Sisters [or Tri sestry; or The Three Sisters]
Konstantin [or Konstantin Gavrilovich Treplev]
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
The son of this family, Henry, was named “Cain” until he killed his brother Abel. For 10 points each:
Give the last name of this New Jersey family, whose patriarch George invents the wheel and multiplication. This family’s maid is named Lilly Sabina.
The Antrobus family survives the ice age and a massive war in this surreal play. It ends with the stage manager telling the audience that the actors got sick and Sabina asking the audience to continue the action themselves.
“The Skin of Our Teeth” is by this playwright, who also wrote a play set in Grover’s Corners, New Hampshire called “Our Town.”
the Antrobus family
“The Skin of Our Teeth”
Thornton Wilder [Thornton Niven Wilder] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Answer the following about literary visits to the Colosseum by moonlight, for 10 points each:
In this Edith Wharton story, Delphin Slade’s widow reveals to Mrs. Ansley that she forged the letter bearing Delphin’s initials that led Mrs. Ansley to visit the Colosseum at night and fall ill when they were girls.
Winterbourne becomes enraged upon seeing that Giovanelli has taken the title character to the Colosseum at night in Daisy Miller, a novella by this writer.
The four central characters go on a frivolous midnight ramble to the Colosseum in this last finished novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne, which is named for the character Donatello’s resemblance to a Praxiteles sculpture.
“Roman Fever”
Henry James
The Marble Faun &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Name these creatures from South American folklore, for 10 points each.
In Brazil, a headless one of these animals was once a woman who had a sexual encounter with a priest and must now roam the countryside spewing fire from its neck.
The Chilote (chee-LOH-tay) people of south Chile believe that in the caves of Brujo (BROO-hoh), warlocks are protected by these deformed, mute guardians created from kidnapped babies.
This dragon may travel between the spiritual and physical worlds in Inca myth. This term was adopted as part of the name of several Inca leaders along with the name “Tupac.”
mule
imbunches [or imvunches]
Amaru &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
In a novel from this country, Nyai Ontosoro, the concubine of Herman Mellema, becomes the mentor to a young writer named Minke. For 10 points each:
Name this Asian country where Pramoedya Ananta Toer (pra-MOOD-yah Ananta TOOR) narrated stories to his prison cellmates, which became This Earth of Mankind, the first volume of the Buru Quartet. Multatuli’s Max Havelaar was also set here.
The wizened reporter Cookie recounts the romance between the journalists Guy Hamilton and Jill Bryant in this Australian novelist’s The Year of Living Dangerously, in which the dwarf Billy Kwan expounds on the moral sense of Indonesian wayang kulit (wah-YAHNG koo-LIT) puppet plays.
The dangerous Communist rallies in The Year of Living Dangerously resemble those that Baby Kochamma suspects her dalit servant Velutha of joining in The God of Small Things, by this Indian writer.
Indonesia
Christopher John Koch
Arundhati Roy [Suzanna Arundhati Roy] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
In this author’s collection <em>More Pricks Than Kicks</em>, Belacqua Shuah struggles with the prospect of killing a lobster. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a novel in which Murphy dreams about Belacqua. Malone Dies is part of a trilogy of novels he wrote while in Paris.
Samuel Beckett was intrigued by the lazy lute maker Belacqua who appears in this section of a larger poem. In this section, the protagonist makes his way up seven terraces of a mountain, the entrance to which is guarded by Cato the Younger.
This British writer created the character of Lyra Belacqua in his series His Dark Materials.
Samuel Beckett
Purgatorio [or Purgatory]
Philip Pullman &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
These objects are “cut into joints” and “imbedded in jelly,” and are found alongside “pies, fruits” and “the necks of four bottles.” For 10 points each:
Name these two objects that a character had the “forethought” to bring on her trip, and in which Loiseau (lwah-ZOH) wants to partake.
The title sex worker shares those chickens on a stagecoach in this short story. The other passengers are angry with her for not offering herself to a Prussian officer so they can continue on their journey.
“Ball of Fat” was written by this French author, who also wrote about a woman working for years to pay back some jewelry she broke without knowing it was actually cheap, in “The Necklace.”
two whole chickens
“Ball of Fat” [or “Boule de Suif”; or “dumpling”; or “butterball”; or “ball of lard”]
Guy de Maupassant (mo-pah-SAWN) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
The beginning of Álvaro Enrigue’s novel <em>Sudden Death</em> depicts this writer playing tennis with Caravaggio using a ball made from Anne Boleyn’s hair. For 10 points each:
Name this pioneer of conceptismo who denounced his rival Luis de Góngora in a poem that describes him as a “faux-Sicilian cyclops” whose “farts sing like sirens.”
Quevedo’s novel El Buscón is part of the picaresque genre that originated in this country in novels such as Lazarillo de Tormes.
Quevedo’s friend Lope de Vega (LO-pay deh VAY-gah) wrote this play, in which the people of the title village kill a cruel commander and, when questioned under torture, say that the village itself killed him.
Francisco de Quevedo [Francisco Gómez de Quevedo y Santibáñez Villegas]
Spain
Fuenteovejuna (FWEN-tay-oh-vay-HOO-nah) [or The Sheep Well] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This question is asked at the beginning of Kate Soper’s chamber opera <em>Ipsa Dixit</em>, and is answered “imitation” as a percussionist dings a bell. For 10 points each:
Identify this three-word question, which also titles an 1897 Leo Tolstoy book that describes how exemplars of the title concept spread emotion through infection.
After explaining his claim that all good art is either Christian or universal, Tolstoy imagines a reader indignant at his claim that this Beethoven piece, which ends with a choral setting of a Schiller poem, is bad art.
This author accused Tolstoy of “malice” and an anti-humanistic bias in his respond to What is Art? entitled “Lear, Tolstoy, and the Fool.” He studied Welsh coal miners in The Road to Wigan Pier.
What Is Art? [or Chto takoye iskusstvo?]
Symphony No. 9 by Ludwig van Beethoven [or Ninth Symphony; or Choral Symphony]
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] &lt;The above question is for the category Arts Misc Arts and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
The “Proem” to this text describes how “A bedlamite speeds to thy parapets, tilting there momently, shrill shirt ballooning,” and begins by asking “How many dawns, chill from his rippling rest, the seagull’s wings shall dip and pivot him?” For 10 points each:
Name this poem which asks its title object to “Unto us lowliest sometime sweep, descend, and of the curveship lend a myth to God.”
The Bridge is the magnum opus of this modernist poet, who committed suicide at thirty-two by jumping off a steam ship into the Gulf of Mexico.
The Bridge is a tribute to the title landmark between Manhattan and this borough on Long Island. That neo-gothic bridge named for this borough crosses the East River, and many who worked on constructing its foundations came down with the bends.
The Bridge
Hart Crane [Harold Hart Crane]
Brooklyn [or Brooklyn Bridge] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
A story set during this conflict ends as Vollmer grows silent before remarking: “It’s just so interesting. The colors and all.” For 10 points each:
Name this conflict during which the narrator calls things such as a hammock and earplugs “human moments” and communicates with Colorado Command from space.
“Human Moments in World War III” appears in this author’s 2011 collection The Angel Esmeralda. He also wrote Underworld and Mao II.
Edgar and Grace, the main characters of the title story from “The Angel Esmeralda,” are in this profession. After shooting Willie Mink, Jack Gladney takes him to a hospital run by members of this profession in White Noise.
World War III [or “Human Moments in World War III”]
Don DeLillo [or Donald Richard DeLillo]
nun &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Tim Morrison&gt;
Recalling a dying soldier, a poem with this title says: “In all my dreams before my helpless sight, he plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning.” For 10 points each:
Give this patriotic phrase from Horace, which a wartime poem calls “the old lie.”
“Dulce et Decorum Est” is by this poet, who fought in World War I and also wrote “Strange Meeting.”
This other Owen poem curses the “wretched” who “by choice… made themselves immune” to “whatever shares the eternal reciprocity of tears.” It begins: “Happy are men who yet before they are killed can let their veins run cold.”
dulce et decorum est pro patria mori [accept translations like “It is sweet and proper to die for the fatherland”]
Wilfred Owen [Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]
“Insensibility” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Daniel Biebuyck has recorded the Mwindo epic of the Banyanga of Congo. For 10 points each:
Mwindo’s father tries to kill his son first by unsuccessfully burying him alive, and then by trapping him in one of these objects that is thrown into a river. Several west African myths describe the origin of the djembe (JEM-bay) kind of these objects.
After he journeyed to Tubondo to find a way to kill his father, Mwindo was made to grow this crop by Muisa. In a Polynesian myth, Maui hides in a wiliwili tree to steal this crop from his grandmother.
While in the banana grove, Mwindo uses his conga-sceptre to do this to himself. In the Kalevala, Lemminkäinen’s (LEM-min-kay-nen’s) mother uses a rake and honey to do this to her son when he is in Tuonela (TOO-oh-nell-ah).
drum
banana [or plantain]
bring back to life [or resurrect; or come back to life] &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This critic wrote that a true poet must have the “power of making words express what he feels,” a stance that led him to criticize the “Grand Style” of John Milton. For 10 points each:
Name this English critic who put forth Jane Austen and Henry James as representatives of morally serious literature in The Great Tradition. He was known for his strenuous dogmatism as the long-time principal editor of the journal Scrutiny.
Leavis’s formalist emphasis on “the words on the page” is often compared with this school of American criticism whose name was coined in a book by John Crowe Ransom. It emphasized self-contained close reading of poetry.
Other major influences on the New Critics included this man, who included “Tradition and the Individual Talent” and “Hamlet and His Problems” in The Sacred Wood. Leavis particularly admired this man’s poem The Waste Land.
F. R. Leavis [or Frank Raymond Leavis]
New Criticism
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
The title character of this picaresque novel is given his moniker by a hermit because he doesn’t even know his own name. For 10 points each:
Name this novel partly inspired by the life of its author Hans Jakob Christoffel von Grimelhausen’s experience in the Thirty Years War. Its protagonist’s full name is an anagram of von Grimelhausen’s full name.
Grimelhausen’s Simplicissimus inspired this other German’s portrayal of the Thirty Years War in his play Mother Courage and Her Children. This playwright described “Alienation Effects in Chinese Theatre” in an essay.
Swedish soldiers get one of these animals to lick Simplicissimus’s feet to reveal where he has hidden his treasure. One of these animals named Djali is able to spell in The Hunchback of Notre-Dame.
Simplicius Simplicissimus [or The Adventurous Simplicissimus or Simplicissimus or Der abenteuerliche Simplicissimus]
Bertolt Brecht
goat &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This character gives Egeon (ee-JEE-on) an additional day to pay one thousand marks. For 10 points each:
Name this Duke of Ephesus who punishes Egeon of Syracuse for entering his city.
Solinus and twin brothers named Antipholus (an-TIFF-uh-luss) are characters in this Shakespeare play.
The Comedy of Errors features another set of two characters with this name, who serve the Antipholuses.
Solinus
The Comedy of Errors
Dromio &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
Highway signs describe this man as “The fat boy with the happy laugh” and “A veteran!” For 10 points each:
Name this barbecue proprietor with a pet gray monkey, who runs an institution known as “The Tower” and tells a visiting family about “the Misfit.”
Red Sammy appears in the short story “A Good Man is Hard to Find” by this author. She also wrote “Everything That Rises Must Converge” and the novel Wise Blood.
A cashier named Sammy features in this short story, where he is captivated when “three girls in nothing but bathing suits” enter his workplace. In this John Updike story, Sammy quits his job to defend the girls, and his “stomach kind of fell as I felt how hard the world was going to be.”
Red Sammy Butts
Flannery O’Connor
“A&amp;P” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
A sequel to this story is entitled “The Discourager of Hesitancy.” For 10 points each:
Name this short story without a clear ending. It discusses a punishment given to a peasant for being the lover of a princess.
“The Lady, or the Tiger?” is a short story by this author.
The title “Discourager of Hesitancy” is this kind of weapon. One of them that appears in Peter Pan is called Johnny Corkscrew.
“The Lady, or the Tiger?”
Frank R. Stockton [Frank Richard Stockton]
sword [or scimitar] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
All but one member of this institution drown themselves in the name of the title character at the end of Max Beerbohm’s satirical novel <em>Zuleika Dobson</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this institution, from which Paul Pennyfeather is forced to rusticate at the beginning of a later novel after falling victim to the Bollinger Club’s drunken revelry.
Although it is thinly disguised as “Christminster,” a more serious representation of Oxford in literature appears in the novel Jude the Obscure by this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge and Far From The Madding Crowd.
Getting into Oxford is the focus of the play The History Boys by this British author who also wrote a series of Talking Heads monologues.
University of Oxford
Thomas Hardy
Alan Bennett &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
This writer’s novel <em>Clélie</em> (klay-LEE) introduced the <em>carte de tendre</em> (kart duh TON-druh), a map depicting the path towards love. For 10 points each:
Name this French writer who coined the term roman à clef (ro-MAWN ah KLAY) and fictionalized the lives of 17th century socialites in novels such as Artamène (ar-tah-MEN), which is among the longest novels ever written.
De Scudéry was among the witty précieuses (prace-YUZZ) mocked in this playwright’s The Ridiculous Précieuses. Orgon falls under the spell of a hypocrite in his play Tartuffe.
De Scudéry solves the mystery surrounding the death of the renowned goldsmith René Cardillac (ruh-NAY kar-dee-YAK) in a novella by this Prussian writer, whose “tales” include “The Sandman.”
Madeleine de Scudéry (mah-duh-LEN duh skoo-day-REE)
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
E. T. A. Hoffmann [or Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Joseph Asagai calls this character’s choice to straighten her hair “mutilation,” and later asks her to move to Nigeria with him. For 10 points each:
Name this character, the sister of Walter, who has to choose between Joseph and her rich, assimilated boyfriend George Murchison.
Beneatha was created by this author, who wrote a play about the life of the Younger family as they figure out how to use an insurance payout and decide whether to take a buyout rather than move into an all-white neighborhood.
Name that play, whose title comes from Langston Hughes’s poem “Harlem,” which asks “What happens to a dream deferred?”
Beneatha Younger [prompt on Younger]
Lorraine Hansberry [Lorraine Vivian Hansberry]
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
In a poem by this writer, two characters’ footprints are described as “First traces in the world, of life and time / And love, and mortal hope, and vanishing.” For 10 points each:
Name this Victorian poet, who explored Norse mythology in Ask to Embla and Ragnarök. This poet was the subject of Mortimer Cropper’s biography The Great Ventriloquist, and two critics controversially claimed that another poet’s The Fairy Melusine was influenced by him.
Roland Michell and Maud Bailey work together to race Cropper and James Blackadder to discover evidence of Ash’s passionate affair with fellow poet Christabel LaMotte in this novel by A. S. Byatt.
Ash’s love of the dramatic monologue is often compared to this real Victorian poet, whose “Mr. Sludge, ‘The Medium’” provides the epigraph to Possession. This man wrote “My Last Duchess.”
Randolph Henry Ash
Possession
Robert Browning &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Anna imagines herself as a kindergarten teacher suffering from a syndrome called Acquired Toilet Disease in this woman’s play <em>The Baltimore Waltz</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American dramatist who described a girl sexually abused by her charismatic Uncle Peck in the 1998 play How I Learned to Drive.
Vogel was nominated for a Tony in 2017 for this play, which dramatizes the controversy generated by the American premiere of Sholem Asch’s play God of Vengeance.
God of Vengeance was originally written in this language. A rich theatrical tradition in this language was created by Ashkenazi (OSH-kuh-NAH-zee) Jews in Europe and America.
Paula Vogel
Indecent
Yiddish &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Danny Vopava&gt;
In this story, the protagonist sits in a laundry-room for fifteen minutes, contemplating why he is willing to die in someone else’s place, before giving his interrogators what he thinks to be false intelligence about a gravedigger’s shack. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which Pablo Ibbieta escapes a death sentence after accidentally telling the truth that Ramon Gris (rah-moan GREE) is hiding in a cemetery.
“The Wall” is a short story by this French author and philosopher of Nausea and No Exit.
While the main characters of The Wall are imprisoned, a Belgian member of this profession comes to visit them, ineffectively trying to comfort them about their sentences. In another existentialist narrative, Bernard Rieux (ree-UH) is a member of this profession.
“The Wall” [or “Le mur”]
Jean-Paul Sartre (sart)
doctor [or physician] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
A poem about a little girl in this situation begins with a stanza that ends “Know that, in a former time, Love! sweet Love! was thought a crime.” For 10 points each:
Name this situation that titles a William Blake poem about a girl named Lyca who is taken to a cave by a pair of lions. A boy in this metaphorical situation is burned at the stake for asking “Father, how can I love you or any of my brothers more?”
Blake’s poems about little boys and girls who are “lost” and “found” appear in this two-part collection, which also includes “The Little Black Boy” and “The Tyger.”
Songs of Innocence and Experience also includes two poems about boys who labor in this profession, including Tom Dacre, who dreams of being brought to heaven by an angel with a “bright key.”
being lost
Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience
chimney-sweeper &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This author wrote the lines “I had read in books that art is not easy, but no one warned that the mind repeats in its ignorance the vision of others” in the poem “Dürer: Innsbruck, 1495.” For 10 points each:
Name this fictitious poet created by James McAuley and Harold Stewart to satirize and hoax modernist poetry, published in the magazine Angry Penguins.
The Ern Malley hoax inspired the book My Life as a Fake by this author of Oscar and Lucinda and The True History of the Kelly Gang.
Both Peter Carey and the creators of Ern Malley hailed from this country, whose “bush poets” such as Banjo Paterson wrote of life in the Outback.
Ernest Lalor “Ern” Malley
Peter Philip Carey
Australia &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This novella features the short line “Then – the officer,” in which the dash between the first two words represents the rape of the title character. For 10 points each:
Name this novella by Heinrich von Kleist, in which the title woman places an advertisement in the local newspapers of an Italian town, asking for the father of her child to come forward.
von Kleist is generally considered part of this broader European literary movement. This movement is also represented by Lyrical Ballads, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth.
Romanticism partly developed from this earlier German movement, propounded by Hamann, Goethe (GUR-tuh), and Schiller. This movement involves much greater extremes of emotion than usual in the Enlightenment, and its name comes from a play by Friedrich Maximilian Klinger.
The Marquise of O [or Die Marquise von O]
Romanticism
Sturm und Drang [or Storm and Stress] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
This character is introduced when he crashes a religious revival by accusing the preacher of pedophilia and bestiality, inciting an angry mob. For 10 points each:
Name this apparent polymath who extensively catalogs the natural world and declares that “war is God.”
The hairless, pale Judge Holden leads a gang of murderous scalpers and thieves in this novel, which follows “the kid” through the deserts of Mexico.
Blood Meridian is by this author. He also wrote about a father and son wandering about in a post-apocalyptic waste in The Road.
Judge Holden [or the Judge]
Blood Meridian
Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
The speaker of this poem says “Dying is an art, like everything else. I do it exceptionally well.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose speaker declares “Out of the ash I rise with my red hair, and I eat men like air.”
“Lady Lazarus” was published in this collection, alongside “Tulips” and “Munich Mannequins.” Its title poem begins “Stasis in darkness, then the substanceless blue, pour of tor and distances.”
Ariel is a collection of poetry by this author, including her poem “Daddy.” She also wrote a novel, The Bell Jar.
“Lady Lazarus”
Ariel
Sylvia Plath &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This writer began his novel <em>Almayer’s Folly</em> while working as first mate on the <em>Torrens</em>, which sailed from London to Adelaide. For 10 points each:
Name this novelist who set his novels An Outcast of the Islands and The Rescue in Malaysia.
While on the return from Adelaide to London, this novelist was impressed by the young Conrad’s conversation. This author popularized the name Jolyon in a series of books in which Enoch builds the house Robin Hill for his wife Irene.
Galsworthy travelled to the antipodes to meet this Scottish author of Kidnapped and Treasure Island.
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Korzeniowski]
John Galsworthy
Robert Louis Stevenson &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This play opens in 1809 as Septimus Hodge challenges Thomasina to prove Fermat’s last theorem to distract her from “carnal embrace.” For 10 points each:
Name this play which also follows Hannah Jarvis as she researches an old house in the present day.
Arcadia is by this Czech-born British author, who also wrote The Real Thing, Professional Foul and The Coast of Utopia.
Stoppard wrote a play about these two minor characters from a Shakespeare play, who in the title “Are Dead.” That play opens with these characters flipping a coin, only for it to come up heads every time.
Arcadia
Tom Stoppard [or Tomáš Straussler]
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern [accept Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Edmund Wilson’s book on symbolist literature is titled in reference to this play, whose title character says “Living? Our servants will do that for us.” For 10 points each:
Name this play by Auguste Villiers de L’Isle-Adam (veel-YAY duh LEEL-ah-DOM), whose title character meets the rich heiress Sara de Maupers (mo-PAIR) in the crypt of his castle after they both respond “no” when asked whether they will accept “light, hope, and life.”
Villiers de L’Isle-Adam’s novel The Future Eve coined the modern sense of this word for a humanoid robot. A Philip K. Dick novel, despite more often using the term “replicant,” asks in the title whether these creatures “dream of electric sheep.”
In Karel Čapek’s (CHOP-ek’s) R.U.R., Alquist realizes that two robots are a new Adam and Eve after threatening to kill one of them to test their love. Name either of those robots.
Axël
androids [accept Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?]
Primus OR Helena &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
An immensely erudite novel by a writer with this surname, <em>Darconville’s Cat</em>, chronicles the life of an English professor who is turned against his former lover Isabel by the misogynist Dr. Crucifer. For 10 points each:
Name this surname of brothers Alexander and Paul, the latter of whom wrote The Mosquito Coast and The Great Railway Bazaar.
Paul Theroux’s book Sir Vidia’s Shadow describes his often tense friendship with this Indo-Trinidadian writer, whose only rule was “Never give anyone a second chance.” He wrote A Bend in the River.
This St. Lucian (LOO-shin) writer mocked Naipaul in “The Mongoose,” writing “Once he liked humans; / How long ago this was!” In a poem, he wrote “The classics can console. But not enough.”
Theroux (thuh-ROO)
V. S. Naipaul [Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul]
Derek Walcott [Derek Alton Walcott] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
In a story by this author, Rosa sucks on the fabric that had kept baby Magda alive as she is unable to recover her body from the electric fence that she was thrown against. For 10 points each:
Identify this author of “The Shawl.”
Cynthia Ozick’s “The Shawl,” like Tadeusz Borowski’s (tah-DAY-oosh boh-ROFF-skee’s) collection This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen, is set in one of these places.
In Ozick’s short story “Dictation,” Joseph Conrad’s secretary and this other writer’s secretary have a lesbian affair and plan to swap out a passage from this writer’s spooky story “The Jolly Corner.” The ghost of Miss Jessel appears in one of his novellas.
Cynthia Ozick
concentration camps [or death camps]
Henry James &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This iambic (eye-AM-bic) poet wrote about his lack of regret at tossing away a shield that was later picked up by a Thracian (THRAY-shin) soldier. For 10 points each:
Name this archaic Greek lyric poet whose fragments include, “The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing.”
This Roman lyric poet imitated Archilochus in his Epodes (EPP-odes). His Odes coined the phrase “carpe diem” (KAR-pay DEE-em), and he also wrote Ars Poetica.
Another model for Horace’s poetry was this author whose surviving victory odes were often inspired by Panhellenic festivals. He wrote that “War is sweet to them who know it not.”
Archilochus (ar-KILL-uh-kuss)
Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
Pindaros &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
One of these beings tranquilizes the protagonist before it is destroyed with a flamethrower. For 10 points each:
Name these eight-legged beings, one of which is fraudulently depicted killing the fugitive Guy Montag in a faked news broadcast.
This author created Guy Montag and the Mechanical Hound in his dystopian novel about an anti-literate society titled Fahrenheit 451.
This oft-anthologized Bradbury story depicts explorers discovering what appears to be a beautiful society resembling their hometown, but which turns out to be a telepathic projection created by unfriendly natives.
Mechanical Hounds
Ray Bradbury
“Mars is Heaven!” [or “The Third Expedition”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Matthew Prichard, the grandson of this play’s author, complained that its ending was spoiled on Wikipedia, so hopefully he isn’t reading at this tournament. For 10 points each:
Name this 1952 play. Its twist ending reveals the truth about Sergeant Trotter, who is investigating the murders of those tied to the abuse of foster children.
The author of The Mousetrap uses another twist ending in this novel about the death of Samuel Ratchett, a conspirator in a kidnapping and murder based on the Lindbergh kidnapping case.
This mystery author wrote both The Mousetrap and Murder on the Orient Express.
The Mousetrap
Murder on the Orient Express
Agatha Christie [Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie; or Lady Mallowan; or Agatha Miller] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
In a play first performed during the reign of this monarch, Alice hires Blackwill and Shakbag to kill her husband Thomas. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch during whose reign domestic tragedies such as Arden of Faversham and A Warning for Fair Women were written.
It has been suggested that Arden of Faversham was written by this English playwright and son of Mary Arden who set his play As You Like It in the Forest of Arden.
This Elizabethan playwright of The Four Prentices of London wrote several less sensational domestic tragedies including A Woman Killed With Kindness.
Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]
William Shakespeare
Thomas Heywood &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This character’s performance in the opera <em>Salammbô</em> is panned. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose husband finishes writing a review of her performance in the New York Inquirer.
Susan’s husband, Charles Foster Kane, is portrayed in Cit izen Kane by this actor who also directed the film.
When Charles Foster Kane dies, this object falls out of his hand; along with the sled Rosebud, it represents Kane’s lost past life.
Susan Alexander Kane [or Susan Alexander; prompt on Kane]
George Orson Welles
snow globe [or snow dome] &lt;The above question is for the category Arts Film and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
This character pretends to be the father of a dying girl after a shipwreck in order to calm her in her last moments. For 10 points each:
Name this British military officer, a devout Catholic who commits suicide rather than renounce his affair with Helen. His wife Louise is told that nobody can know a man’s heart or God’s mercy when she tries to rationalize this man’s death.
Major Scobie is the main character of this novel, in which he searches ships such as the Portuguese Esperança for smuggled diamonds and deals with the black market trader Yusef.
The Heart of the Matter was written by this English author who wrote The End of the Affair and The Power and the Glory.
Major Henry Scobie
The Heart of the Matter
Graham Greene [Henry Graham Greene] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
In this short story, Mel McGinnis talks about an elderly couple that was injured in a car accident. For 10 points each:
Name this short story by Raymond Carver. In Mel’s story, the elderly man is upset because he can’t see his wife through the eye holes of his bandages.
The phrase “What We Talk About When We Talk About” has become a meme of sorts in literature; Nathan Englander was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his short story collection What We Talk About When We Talk About this person.
“What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank” was originally published in this magazine. John Hersey’s Hiroshima was first published in this magazine.
“What We Talk About When We Talk About Love”
Anne Frank
The New Yorker &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
This man advocated the motto “reformarse es vivir” (reh-for-MAR-say ess vee-VEER), or “to reform oneself is to live.” For 10 points each:
Name this nonfiction author of The Gallery of Prospero and the pan-Latin-American idealist essay “Ariel.”
Rodó, like the author of History of a Troubled Life, Horacio Quiroga (oh-RAHSS-yo kee-ROH-gah), was from this South American country.
Quiroga wrote a collection titled for Stories of Love, Madness, and this phenomenon. In an Ariel Dorfman play titled for this thing “and the maiden,” Paulina Salas tries to get Dr. Miranda to confess to rape.
José Enrique Rodó
Uruguay [Oriental Republic of Uruguay; or República Oriental del Uruguay]
death &lt;The above question is for the category Literature World and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This character asks “Have you found any places where God would have felt at home?” after someone says “we are living in a place abandoned by God.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who gathers a peculiar herb and eats it in “moments of great tension.”
William of Baskerville appears in this novel. At the end, Jorge kills himself by burning down the library.
The Name of the Rose was written by this Italian novelist and critic. He wrote Foucault’s Pendulum.
William of Baskerville [prompt on William]
The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa]
Umberto Eco &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This character invites himself over to Longbourn in a letter where he says: “I flatter myself that my present overtures of good will are highly commendable.” For 10 points each:
Name this pompous clergyman who reads Fordyce’s sermons to a half-willing audience. When he learns that the woman he is hitting on “will soon be engaged,” he goes after her sister instead without hesitation.
Collins ends up going after this second Bennett sister, who rejects him. She ends up deepening her relationship with the rich, but aloof, Mr. Darcy.
Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy end up marrying in this Jane Austen novel, in which Lydia elopes with Mr. Wickham and Jane marries Charles Bingley.
William Collins [or William]
Elizabeth Bennett
Pride and Prejudice &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
The <em>Los Angeles Times</em> claimed a photo of this man made him look “as if he were dreamily contemplating some outrage against conventional morality.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who was photographed intensely gazing into the camera while reclining for the dust jacket of a 1948 novel. That book by this man takes place at the mansion Skully’s Landing.
Twelve years after the publication of Other Voices, Other Rooms, a younger version of Capote was fictionalized as this character in the 1960 novel To Kill a Mockingbird. This character is a boy who visits Macomb (MAKE-um) every summer and befriends Scout.
Until the controversial 2015 publication of Go Set a Watchman, To Kill a Mockingbird was the only published novel by this author, a longtime friend of Capote.
Truman Capote [Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Parsons]
Dill Harris [or Charles Baker Harris; or Harris]
Harper Lee [or Nelle Harper Lee] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This character’s last words before dying are “You were right, old hoss; you were right,” as he thinks of an “old-timer” at Sulphur Creek. For 10 points each:
Identify this unnamed character who dies at the end of a 1908 story after foolishly ignoring various warnings. After his death, his equally unnamed dog runs off.
This author of “To Build a Fire” also set his novel The Call of the Wild in the Yukon.
This non-fiction 1913 novel by London describes his addiction to alcohol. Supposedly containing the first recorded example of a drunk seeing “pink elephants,” this book takes its name a British folk song about the personification of a cereal crop used to make alcohol.
the protagonist of “To Build a Fire” [accept any answer indicating this is the character in “To Build a Fire”]
Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]
John Barleycorn &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
In Karel Hynek Macha’s <em>Máj</em> (my), the lover Jarmila and Vilem think about each other from opposite sides of one of these locations. For 10 points each:
A poem by Alphonse de Lamartine mourns how Julie Charles cannot revisit a beautiful example of what sort of place where they had spent the previous summer?
Lamartine was annoyed with the way that the poem finished and this published an alternative ending in 1825. This semi-autobiographical work chronicled its English author’s melancholic journey across Europe, and its title references a candidate for knighthood.
Lamartine’s own journeys inspired his sensational novel Graziella in which a Frenchman falls in love with a fisherman’s daughter in this city. Elena Ferrante has set a series of books in this city in southern Italy, the subject of Roberto Saviano’s Gomorrah.
lake [or Le Lac]
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage
Naples [or Napoli] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
The frame story of this poem involves the title character repeatedly falling asleep in the Malvern Hills, before seeing visions including a “fair field full of folk,” representing all of mankind. For 10 points each:
Name this poem by William Langland. Its protagonist visits the allegorical characters Do-Well, Do-Better and Do-Best in his quest for the true Christian life.
Each vision in Piers Plowman is subdivided into these short sections, roughly analogous to cantos. They are known by either a Latin or English name.
This possible contemporary of Langland wrote Patience, Cleanness, and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
“Piers Plowman” [or “William’s Vision of Piers Plowman”]
Passus or steps
the Pearl Poet &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
A version of this play translated by André Gide (“zheed”) was read on the radio the night before Paris fell to the Nazis. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Amal, a boy who is sick and confined to his uncle’s house, converses with passers-by and dreams of receiving letters from the king.
This author of The Post Office also wrote Red Oleanders, which describes a revolt against the king of Yakshapuri, and a poetry collection where he says “let my country awake” into a world “where knowledge is free.”
Tagore is most well-known for this poetry collection of Bengali “Song Offerings,” which discusses a place “where the mind is without fear” and opens with the line “thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure.”
The Post Office [or Dak Ghar]
Rabindranath Tagore
Gitanjali &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
This play ends with the housekeeper Johanna repeating “This is the way the world ends” after Violet reveals that she knew about the incestuous affair of Ivy and Charles. For 10 points each:
Name this Tracy Letts play which shows the breakdown of the Southern Weston family after the suicide of Beverly and the heavy drug use of the matriarch Violet.
The morphine-addicted mother Mary appears in this author’s play about the similarly ugly conflicts among the Tyrones over alcoholism and Edmund’s consumption, A Long Day’s Journey into Night.
In the final scene of A Long Day’s Journey into Night, Mary comes downstairs in a trance to perform this activity, which she practiced as a girl in the convent and can no longer do because of her maimed fingers.
August: Osage County
Eugene O’Neill
play the piano [accept equivalents] &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
One work by this author states that “every man who has suffered misfortunes prefers to be himself, even with his misfortunes, than to be someone else without them.” For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish author who included pieces like “The Man of Flesh and Bone” and “In the Depths of the Abyss” in his essay collection The Tragic Sense of Life.
In Unamuno’s novel Mist, the character Augusto is rejected by Eugenia and before killing himself, decides to consult this type of character, who tells him that he can’t die since he isn’t real. This type of character also notably makes an appearance in Vonnegut’s Slaughterhouse-Five.
After the author kills him off, Augusto’s funeral oration is given by one of these creatures. The high-born Diana’s love for her secretary Teodoro titles a Lope de Vega play named for one of these animals “in the Manger.”
Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo
the author [or Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo; or Kurt Vonnegut; accept descriptions such as himself]
dog [or perro] &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
This woman is often considered to be “the poet of the Risorgimento” largely because of her poem about a “little child so singing ’neath Casa Guidi windows… <em>O bella liberta, O bella!</em>” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who lived in Florence after writing “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways” in Sonnets from the Portuguese.
In Sonnets from the Portuguese, Browning says that “the soul’s” type of this Italian place “hath its merchandise” and describes “bartering curl for curl” and receiving a lock of hair here, which she lays on her chest.
Browning wrote this verse novel in which the title character travels from Florence to London to become a poet and falls in love with Romney, who goes blind after failed romances with Marian Earle and Lady Waldemar.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning]
Rialto [or the soul’s Rialto]
Aurora Leigh &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
Henry Louis Gates wrote about “The Trials of” this author and the appraisal of her poetry, which freed her from slavery. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, who addressed a poem beginning “Celestial choir! Enthron’d in realms of light” to “His Excellency General Washington.”
In “On Being Brought from Africa to America,” Wheatley claims that this quality “brought me from my Pagan land” and taught her soul to understand that there’s a God. Shakespeare claims that this quality “is not strained.”
This first African-American poet to be published wrote “An Address to Miss Phillis Wheatley” in which he praised her as “you pious youth!” and delivered an address about heaven to “the Negroes of the State of New York.”
Phillis Wheatley
mercy
Jupiter Hammon &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
One character in this play defines “carnal embrace” and Fermat’s Last Theorem in quick succession, to the disgust of a thirteen-year-old. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which a character notes that you cannot reverse entropy by stirring jam and pudding apart again. It ends with one set of characters looking at a diagram of heat exchange while others in an earlier time waltz.
In this David Auburn play, the mathematician Catherine writes a theorem on prime numbers that is mistaken for her mentally ill father Robert’s last work.
Simon McBurney’s play A Disappearing Number is about the collaboration of Srinivasa Ramanujan and a professor of this last name. An author with this last name wrote Jude the Obscure and Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
Arcadia
Proof
Hardy [accept G. H. Hardy or Thomas Hardy] &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
Severed fingers are apparently a prominent motif in literature. For 10 points each:
Esteban Trueba cuts off three fingers from his daughter Blanca’s lover Pedro Tercero in The House of the Spirits, a novel by this author.
The title character of this John Irving novel, who speaks in all capitals, cuts off his friend’s finger with a headstone-cutting tool to get him out of service in the Vietnam War and saves orphans from a hand grenade.
In The Tin Drum, Oskar Matzerath is falsely convicted for killing this nun, whose severed ring finger he finds in a field. When he bumps into her in the middle of the night, he tells her he is Satan, making her faint.
Isabel Allende
A Prayer for Owen Meany
Sister Dorothea &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
A character in this short story collection, Man-Man, stages his own crucifixion, while another character, B. Wordsworth, intends to write the greatest poem ever but never got past the first line. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of short stories about the residents of the title road, including Bogart, Popo, Hat, and Bigfoot, told by a narrator who eventually leaves to study in London.
This Trinidadian author of Miguel Street and A House for Mr. Biswas wrote “The world is what it is” to begin a novel featuring Salim and the Big Man, A Bend in the River.
This Booker-winning Naipaul novel is a collection of three short stories including “One out of Many” and “Tell Me Who to Kill.” Its title story relates a road trip taken by Bobby and Linda during a coup by the President.
Miguel Street
V. S. Naipaul
In A Free State &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
A poem from this collection begins “My ship, full of oblivion, sails / on a bitter sea, at winter’s midnight / between Scylla and Charybdis.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 366 poems dedicated to Laura that ends with a much longer poem that addresses the Virgin Mary.
This two-word phrase from the first line of the first poem of Il Canzoniere is also another name for the collection. This phrase describes “the sound… of those sighs on which I fed my heart.”
This author of Canzoniere and The Ascent of Mont Ventoux delivered his “Coronation Oration” when he was crowned poet laureate of Rome. He names a form of sonnet.
Il Canzoniere (“ell kont-sone-YAY-ray”)
scattered rhymes [or rime sparse]
Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca] &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this novel sees two suns and two moons as well as identical copies of dead fish. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose title character makes a machine that causes reality to infinitely loop so that he can be with Faustine forever.
This author of The Invention of Morel was married to the gothic short-story writer Silvina Ocampo, whose sister Victoria published the magazine Sur.
Casares and the Ocampo sisters hail from this country, also the home of Julio Cortázar and Manuel Puig.
The Invention of Morel
Adolfo Bioy Casares
Argentina &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
In one play by this author, a gravedigger called “the Foundling Father” digs a replica of “the Great Hole of History” for his family. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright who wrote about the Abraham Lincoln impersonator Lincoln and his brother Booth in Topdog/Underdog.
Parks’s plays In the Blood and Fucking A, whose protagonist Hester is branded with the letter A for being an abortionist, are riffs on this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel.
Parks wrote a soon-to-be-produced screenplay for this novel about a character who kills a rat with a frying pan and is defended by the Communist lawyer Boris Max.
Suzan-Lori Parks
The Scarlet Letter
Native Son &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
In the final line of this story, a pear tree is claimed to be “as lovely as ever and as full of flower.” For 10 points each:
Name this short story, in which Bertha Young waits for Miss Fulton to “give the sign” and stands with her in the moonlight, only to find out she is having an affair with her husband Harry.
The author of “Bliss” also wrote this story in which the Sheridans “could not have had a more perfect day for” the title event “if they had ordered it.” In it, Laura brings leftovers to the family of her dead neighbor.
Ths New Zealand author of “Bliss” and “The Garden Party” wrote “Miss Brill” and “Prelude.”
“Bliss”
“The Garden Party”
Katherine Mansfield &lt;LC, British Literature&gt;
In a poem about this structure, the speaker says that “Thy cables breathe the North Atlantic still.” For 10 points each:
Name this structure that is described as “across the harbor, silver-paced” in the “Proem” opening to one epic poem dedicated to it.
This poet of “Chaplinesque” wrote his epic poem “The Bridge” about Brooklyn Bridge, which he could see from his window.
Exact word required. In his poem “Chaplinesque,” Crane describes finding this type of animal famished “on the step” and “through all sound of gaiety and quest” hearing it “in the wilderness.”
Brooklyn Bridge
Hart Crane [prompt on Crane]
kitten [do not accept “cat”] &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
A book with this name by Siri Hustvedt deals with the artist Harriet Burden who sells her work by hiring men to present it as their own. For 10 points each:
This is also the title of a 1666 utopian work by Margaret Cavendish, in which the protagonist reaches the title “new world” via the North Pole and gets crowned Empress of some bird-men and fish-men.
This author compared Margaret Cavendish’s lack of tutoring and disorganized intellect to a giant cucumber choking roses and carnations in a garden in her work A Room of One’s Own.
Right after a discussion of Cavendish, A Room of One’s Own praises this author of Oroonoko and The Rover, who wrote about girls trying to convince their guardian that their lovers are aliens in The Emperor of the Moon.
The Blazing World
Virginia Woolf
Aphra Behn &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
In this author’s work <em>The Dream</em>, the narrator’s body falls asleep and her soul ascends to contemplate all existence, starting with a fountain and a flower. For 10 points each:
Name this Mexican nun and writer who defended women’s right to education in Reply to Sister Philotea and wrote “I, the worst of all women.”
Sor Juana titled a work with the phrase “Love is More” [one of these things]. Another work titled after one of these things includes sections like “Mexican Mask” and “The Sons of La Malinche.”
The Labyrinth of Solitude is by this other Mexican writer of Sunstone, who wrote a biography of Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith.
Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz [accept either underlined portion; accept Juana Inés de Asbaje y Ramírez de Santillana; prompt on partial answer]
labyrinth [accept Love is More a Labyrinth or The Labyrinth of Solitude]
Octavio Paz &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
One work by this author claims that soldiers or a fleet are not the most beautiful sight, but whatever you love best. For 10 points each:
Name this inhabitant of Lesbos who wrote about her daughter Cleis and whose sexuality has been rather intensely disputed. She may have committed suicide by jumping off the Leucadian cliffs.
This work by Sappho implores a figure who “left [her] father’s golden house” and “yoked to [her] shining car” “wing-whirring sparrows” to “fight as my comrade” when a girlfriend is treating her cruelly.
This poet translated Sappho’s works in If not, winter and analyzed her discussion of jealousy in Fragment 31 in Eros the Bittersweet.
Sappho
“Hymn to Aphrodite” [or “Ode to Aphrodite”; or Sappho fragment 1]
Anne Carson &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
This man wrote about a Polish-German-Lithuanian Cemetery Association in <em>The Call of the Toad</em> and a meeting during the thirty Years War in <em>The Meeting at Telgte</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote a novel narrated by Paul Pokriefke, who was born as a ship sank.
Grass was a part of this literary criticism movement that focused on promoting unknown authors, especially of post-war literature, and was named after the year it was founded.
This other member of Group 47 is most well-known for his novel Billiards at Half-Past Nine, which takes place over the course of a single day.
Günter Grass
Group 47
Heinrich Böll &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
A novel by this author takes place in the village of Dukana and follows Mene and his infatuation with Agnes. For 10 points each:
Name this author who used “Rotten English” to write his novel Sozaboy and was later executed for his political activism.
Sozaboy takes place during this conflict, which is discussed by many Nigerian authors in works such as There Was a Country.
There Was a Country is a memoir about the Nigerian Civil War by this man who had previously maintained silence on the topic of the war. He wrote Things Fall Apart.
Ken Saro-Wiwa
Biafran War [or Nigerian Civil War]
Chinua Achebe &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
This figure is asked “What would you do with me if I came ‘in white’? Have you the little chest – to put the alive – in?” For 10 points each:
Name this addressee of three passionate letters from a woman calling herself “Daisy” that are either love letters or metaphorical. He is often theorized to be Otis Lord or Charles Wadsworth.
The Master letters were written by this reclusive, dash-loving American poet, who wrote “How dreary to be somebody” in the poem “I’m Nobody! Who are you?”
In one poem, Dickinson described feeling one of these things “in my brain” before hearing a drumbeat and “a Plank in Reason, broke / And I dropped down, and down – And hit a World, at every plunge.”
the Master
Emily Dickinson
funeral &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
If music be the food of bonuses, play on. Identify the following about Shakespearean tunes, for 10 points each.
Duke Orsino calls music “the food of love” in this Shakespeare play, which ends with a fool singing “for the rain it raineth every day.”
In Much Ado About Nothing, Balthasar sings a song that begins by telling ladies to perform this three-word action because “men were deceivers ever,” and to convert all their “sounds of woe / Into hey, nonny, nonny.”
Some songs from Thomas Middleton’s play The Witch were apocryphally added to this play, whose chant “Double, double, toil and trouble” is also often performed as a song.
Twelfth Night
“sigh no more”
Macbeth &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
At the end of this poem, a sailor drowns after being so entranced by the titular figure’s singing that he doesn’t look at the rocks around him. For 10 points each:
Name this Heinrich Heine poem in which the titular figure “combs her golden hair” as she watches the Rhine flow below her.
Heinrich Heine was a Romantic poet from this country home to the author of “Ode to Joy,” Friedrich Schiller.
This author is credited with the first depiction of the character Lorelei in his ballad “Zu Bacharach am Rheine” (“tsoo BACH-ah-rakh ahm RYE-nuh”), which was written for his novel Godwi. He collaborated with Achim von Arnim (“AH-kheem fon AR-neem”) on Des Knaben Wunderhorn (“duss k’NAH-bin VOON-duh-horn”).
“The Lorelei” [or “Die Lorelei”]
Germany
Clemens Brentano &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
A work named for this person looks at the stereotypes of “angel” and “monster” for women in Victorian literature. For 10 points each:
Give either that work’s four-word description, or the proper name, of this character. In another work, this character gives her husband a love potion from Christophine after traveling from Jamaica to England.
The title of The Madwoman in the Attic refers to Bertha Mason, the wife of Edward Rochester. She sets fire to Thornfield Hall after being imprisoned in this Charlotte Brontë novel.
The aforementioned work of feminist literary criticism, The Madwoman in the Attic, was written by two feminist literary critics. Name either one.
the madwoman in the attic [or Antoinette Cosway; or Bertha Mason; prompt on Mrs. Rochester; prompt on woman in the attic]
Jane Eyre
Sandra Gilbert OR Susan Gubar &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
When one character with this last name cannot sleep, her brother reads her a Taoist story about Po Lo choosing a horse based on its spiritual qualities. For 10 points each:
Name this family that appears on the radio show “It’s a Wise Child” and one of whose members, Seymour, kills himself in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.” Its members also include Zooey and Buddy.
This creator of Seymour included the rest of the Glass family in his Nine Stories and also wrote about the phony-hating Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Boo Boo writes the title quotation to Seymour in “Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters” on one of these objects, which was part of a Glass childhood tradition.
Glass family
J. D. Salinger
mirror &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
“The face of a child drawn on a melon” and a baby sparrow eating worms are listed among this book’s list of “Adorable Things.” For 10 points each:
Name this book that includes lists of “Hateful Things” and “Awkward Things,” a zuihitsu (“ZOO-ee-heet-soo”) work that describes palace intrigues and everyday life during the Heian (“HAY-on”) period.
This author of The Pillow Book served under the Empress Teishi, and was called “dreadfully conceited” because she “littered her writing with Chinese characters” by a rival who wrote about Lady Aoi.
That rival of Sei Shonagon was this woman, who wrote what is often considered to be the first novel, The Tale of Genji.
The Pillow Book
Sei Shōnagon [accept either name]
Lady Murasaki Shikibu &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
A section of this poem that describes Toussaint Louverture contains the lines “Death traces a shining circle above this man / death stars softly above his head.” For 10 points each:
Name this book-length poem that contains a section that repeats the phrase “at the end of daybreak.”
This postcolonial literary movement advocated for a common racial identity for all native Africans. It was established by the author of “Notebook of a Return to the Native Land” along with Léopold Senghor and Léon Damas.
This man wrote the influential essay “Discourse on Colonialism” as well as “Notebook of a Return to the Native Land.”
“Notebook of a Return to the Native Land” [or “Cahier d’un retour au pays natal”]
Négritude
Aimé Césaire (“ay-MAY say-ZAIR”) &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
This movement’s manifesto listed things to be “blasted,” such as England’s climate “for its sins and infections,” and things to be “blessed,” like hairdressers and mariners, since they both fight nature. For 10 points each:
Name this British literary and artistic movement, whose manifesto was published by Wyndham Lewis and published in the magazine BLAST.
The first edition of BLAST published a short story that would grow into this novel, which begins “This is the saddest story I have ever heard.” It ends with the narrator passively letting Edward cut his throat with a pen-knife.
This man’s wife, Dorothy Shakespear, published some paintings in BLAST. He named the movement of vorticism as well as using its influence in The Cantos.
vorticism
The Good Soldier
Ezra Pound (Yes, Ezra Pound’s wife’s maiden name really was “Shakespear.” Her mother, Olivia Shakespear, was also a novelist and had an affair with Yeats.) &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
In this poem, children “catch the burning sparks that fly like chaff” as they watch the title character, who “looks the whole world in the face, / For he owes not any man.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose title worker, a “mighty man… with large and sinewy hands,” stands “under a spreading chestnut tree” and takes his children to church while remembering his dead wife.
“The Village Blacksmith” is by this author, who wrote of the Acadian title character’s separation and reuniting with Gabriel in Evangeline and also wrote “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
This Longfellow collection is framed “in Sudbury town / across the meadows bare and brown” with characters like the Landlord and the Student telling tales. It includes “the Saga of King Olaf” as well as “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
“The Village Blacksmith”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Tales of a Wayside Inn &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
A character in this novella berates another for offering “advice… on a cosmic scale and of quite cosmic stupidity, on the redistribution of wealth… and at the same time you eat toothpaste.” For 10 points each:
Name this novella in which the professor Philip Philippovich gives Sharik a human pituitary gland and testicles, turning him for a time into Polygraph Polygraphovich.
Heart of a Dog was written by this Soviet author, who wrote about an author of a novel on Pontius Pilate and a woman who flies naked over Moscow in The Master and Margarita.
In this satirical play by John Hodge, the USSR coerces Bulgakov into writing a play glorifying Stalin and ends up writing the play with him, eventually swapping work with the dictator and inadvertently causing the Great Purge.
Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye]
Mikhail Bulgakov
Collaborators &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
Every paragraph in the first chapter of a novel by this author begins with “For thirty-five years now,” and that phrase is repeated throughout that novel. For 10 points each:
Name this Czech author of Too Loud a Solitude, a novel about a man named Hanta who obsessively saves books from being compacted. He wrote about the tribulations of a hotelier in I Served the King of England.
This Czech author wrote the novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
A postcard that says “Optimism is the opium of mankind! A healthy spirit stinks of stupidity! Long live Trotsky!” is one of the titular things that ruins Ludvík’s life in this Kundera novel, his first.
Bohumil Hrabal
Milan Kundera
The Joke [or Žert] &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
In one work, this man described being drunk as if “my own ghost [was] trying to take its first solo walk outside the body.” For 10 points each:
Name this Turkish author of My Name is Red who described Ka investigating a suicide epidemic after a ban on headscarves in Snow.
Pamuk wrote this novel about Kemal’s love for his cousin Fusun which claims that “A woman who doesn’t love cats is never going to make a man happy.” Pamuk created a real-life version of this novel’s title place.
Kemal describes this object falling onto blue sheets as the happiest moment of his life. This perpetually-lost item becomes the first object in the “Museum of Innocence” after Fusun dies in a car crash.
Orhan Pamuk
The Museum of Innocence
Fusun’s earring &lt;LC, World Literature&gt;
Elmer Cowley repeats the phrases “I’ll be washed and ironed” and “I ain’t so queer” after punching a man whom he thinks keeps looking at him. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of short stories loosely structured around characters like the schoolteachers Wing Biddlebaum and Kate Swift and the protagonist George Willard.
Winesburg, Ohio was written by this author of Windy McPherson’s Son and Dark Laughter.
This first story in Winesburg, Ohio begins with a white-mustached writer trying to get a carpenter to make his bed level with his window, then having a dream that inspires him to write the title work about “truths.”
Winesburg, Ohio
Sherwood Anderson
“The Book of the Grotesque” &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
In a Douglas Adams novel adapted from a never-produced <em>Doctor Who</em> script, Dirk Gently goes back in time to become a “person from” this location. For 10 points each:
That “person from” this place has become a byword for unwanted interruption during writing. That man from here allegedly interrupted the writing of “Kubla Khan,” leaving only “eight or ten scattered lines and images.”
The person from Porlock interrupted this poet of “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” from completing “Kubla Khan.” He coined the term “suspension of disbelief” in his Biographia Literaria.
This poet of “Not Waving But Drowning” bewailed writer’s block, saying “O Person from Porlock come quickly / And bring my thoughts to an end” in “Thoughts about the Person from Porlock.”
Porlock [or “person from Porlock”]
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Stevie Smith &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
This character solves a murder by finding out that a slave lied about receiving an apple from his mistress, causing a man to think that his wife cheated on him and kill her. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who enjoys disguising himself as an ordinary citizen while touring his city of Baghdad.
Haroun al-Rashid appears in this work, which also features stories about Aladdin and Ali Baba.
This author wrote the play Shahrazad, intended as a sequel to the Arabian Nights in which King Shahriyar investigates Scheherazade. He wrote about the “seven sleepers of Ephesus” in The People of the Cave.
Haroun al-Rashid
Arabian Nights [or One Thousand and One Nights]
Tawfiq al-Hakim &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
Only three people have accomplished this feat more than once, including William Faulkner for <em>A Fable</em> and <em>The Reivers</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this feat accomplished most recently by Andrew Sean Greer for Less.
This novel, whose title character is courted by Arthur Russell and eventually enrolls in Frincke’s Business College, received its author’s second Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1922, after The Magnificent Ambersons.
Other than Booth Tarkington and William Faulkner, this author of Rabbit, Run and other novels focusing on Rabbit Angstrom is the only other person to win the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction twice.
winning the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction [or winning the Pulitzer Prize for Novels; or winning the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction multiple times; prompt on winning the Pulitzer Prize or winning the Pulitzer Prize for literature]
Alice Adams
John Hoyer Updike &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
This novel is subtitled “A Suicide Note” because it ends with the narrator supposedly losing his identity when he realizes that his father is Fat Vince, making him now Fat John. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which John Self goes to New York and is stalked by Frank the Phone while working on a disastrous movie that turns out to be a fake.
Money and Yellow Dog were written by a British author with this last name and first name Martin. His father Kingsley wrote Lucky Jim.
In this Martin Amis novel, the German Holocaust doctor Odilo Unverdorben lives in reverse chronology, meaning that he creates people at Auschwitz.
Money
Amis
Time’s Arrow &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
One biographer of this man said that one of his works “abounds with images that find a mirror in every mind.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote about people observed by a “hoary-headed swain” who “kept the noiseless tenor” “along the cool sequester’d vale of life.” He wrote “where ignorance is bliss / ’tis folly to be wise” in another poem.
That biography of Thomas Gray was included in this collection of biographies of fifty-two 18th-century English poets, one of which was earlier published alone as The Life of Richard Savage.
The author of The Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets, Samuel Johnson, was the subject of a famous biography by this man.
Thomas Gray
Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets
James Boswell &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
This author described a Communist chasing his mother who travels “not for party reasons but for partying reasons” as one of the many sexual escapades in his namesake “Inferno.” For 10 points each:
Name this wordplay- and alliteration-loving author who wrote about the nightlife in Club Tropicana in Three Trapped Tigers.
Infante hails from this country home to the writer of “Guantanamera,” José Martí.
This Cuban author of Explosion in a Cathedral wrote about a man who travels into Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony to escape the law in The Chase as well as the shapeshifting slave Ti Noel in The Kingdom of This World.
Guillermo Cabrera Infante
Cuba
Alejo Carpentier (“ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR”) &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
A character by this author who was incarcerated in a tower communicates with his bird-tending lover by holding up large lettered signs. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about the social-climbing Julien Sorel’s affairs with Mathilde (“mah-TEELD”) de la Mole and Madame de Renal in The Red and the Black, which he failed to follow up with The Pink and the Green.
In this work by Stendhal, Fabrizio del Dongo puts on a dead hussar’s uniform and gets swept up in the Battle of Waterloo before being imprisoned and falling in love with Clélia. This novel also features Gina and Count Mosca.
In a technical treatise on this process, Stendhal metaphorically compared it to salt crystalling around a branch or traveling on a trip from Bologna to Rome.
Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
The Charterhouse of Parma
falling in love [accept equivalents] &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
In this novel, after the protagonist’s lover leaves her to settle divorce proceedings in New York, she spends her days staring at a portrait in a Sioux Falls library. For 10 points each:
Name this Patricia Highsmith novel in which Therese Belivet leaves her boyfriend Richard for a woman she meets while working the Christmas rush at a department store’s toy section.
The Price of Salt defies the conventionally unhappy endings of lesbian literature established by The Well of Loneliness, a novel written by a woman with this first name. An author with a similar [emphasize] last name wrote the Mysteries of Udolpho.
In contrast, the relationship of Robin and Nora has a very ambiguous ending in Djuna Barnes’s Nightwood. Nightwood takes place in this city, home to expatriates like Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas.
The Price of Salt [do not accept or prompt on “Carol”]
Radclyffe Hall [or Ann Radcliffe]
Paris &lt;SC, American Literature&gt;
In case you couldn’t tell from <em>Fahrenheit 451</em>, Ray Bradbury was a big old literary fanboy. Name some things about authors he rather oddly worked into his science fiction stories, for 10 points each.
In one story, instead of having a sex robot, a man chooses to befriend, and then suicide-mission into space with, a robotic replica of this author. He sort of wrote science fiction himself by describing forever-young revelers in 31,920 AD in Back to Methuselah.
Bradbury created a washed-up author who pretends to be this man and elopes with a librarian who pretends to be Emily Dickinson in a short story named for one of this author’s novels, “Any Friend of Nicholas Nickleby is a Friend of Mine.”
“Spring herself… would scarcely know that we were gone” is a line from “There Will Come Soft Rains,” a poem by this author of “I Shall Not Care” that names, and is recited in, a post-nuclear-war story by Bradbury.
George Bernard Shaw
Charles Dickens
Sara Teasdale &lt;JC, Trash (Mixed Academic)&gt;
Laurel McKelva, the main character of this novel, confronts another character with a destroyed breadboard that belonged to her dead mother. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that depicts the death of Clint McKelva, better known as the Judge, and the rivalry between his daughter and his second wife Fay, a work by Eudora Welty.
Welty wrote “Where Is The Voice Coming From?”, a short story about a white man who kills Roland Summers. The story was written in response to the 1963 killing of this real-life Civil Rights activist by Byron de La Beckwith.
Welty, along with other authors like Flannery O’Connor, was a prominent author in this genre, a regional variant of an earlier European and American literary movement.
The Optimist’s Daughter
Medgar Evers
Southern Gothic [prompt on Gothic] &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
This author wrote <em>A Crown of Sonnets</em>, a collection in which the last line of each sonnet is the first line of the next. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Countess of Montgomery’s Urania, who wrote sonnets from one of its protagonists to the unfaithful other one in Pamphilia to Amphilanthus.
This uncle of Mary Wroth wrote about a Muse who tells him “Fool… look in thy heart, and write” in Astrophel and Stella. He described a woman as chaste as Venus and mild as Juno in “What Length of Verse?”
This author apostrophized “Thou art not built to envious show” to the Sidney family’s country house in “To Penshurst.” He wrote Volpone and Bartholomew Fair.
Mary Wroth
Philip Sidney
Ben Jonson &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
A poem by this author begins “with drum accompaniment” and describes, in all caps, “the robbers,” “the eagles,” and “the politicians” “descending upon us.” For 10 points each:
Name this Nigerian poet of “Elegy for Alto” who described himself as “Watchman to the watchword” and concludes “we are listening in cornfields among the windplayers” in his collection Heavensgate.
Okigbo wrote “Lament of the Masks” to commemorate the 100th birthday of this author of “Sailing to Byzantium” and “The Second Coming.”
The narrator of Okigbo’s poem “The Passage” declares “Before you...naked I stand” to one of these things, which he calls “mother.” Another poem about these things concludes with the line “my soul has grown deep.”
Christopher Okigbo
William Butler Yeats
rivers [accept river goddesses] &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
In this play, a character says that she would rather stand “three times to face their battles, shield in hand, than bear one child!” For 10 points each:
Name this only Ancient Greek play in which a character guilty of killing a family member goes unpunished.
The title character of this other play also murders a family member, and tells his uncle “We are slaves to the gods. Whatever gods are” while explaining the madness he suffered as a result of the murder.
This Ancient Greek author of Medea and Orestes supposedly went to live in a cave after two disastrous marriages.
Medea
Orestes
Euripides &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
After a long day of quizbowl, you decide to chill out by reading some literature written in the second person. For 10 points each:
Rather predictably, you start by perusing this book that begins, “You are about to begin reading Italo Calvino’s new novel…. Relax. Concentrate. Dispel every other thought.”
You next encounter the line “Look, unless you’re writing one, a self-help book is an oxymoron” in this Mohsin Hamid book that describes your life as a Pakistani boy selling bottled water.
Finally, you read the line “Your girl catches you cheating. Well, actually she’s your fiancée, but hey, in a bit it so won’t matter” in this Junot Diaz short story, the final work in the collection “This Is How You Lose Her.”
If on a winter’s night a traveler
How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia
“The Cheater’s Guide to Love” &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
The recipient of this injury complains in a letter that it makes him “marked like a cow” or “like a Papist on Ash Wednesday” and is paranoid that people are always talking about it. For 10 points each:
Charles Trask, the younger brother of Adam, suffers this injury after losing his temper while trying to move a large boulder from his yard.
Charles receives that “mark of Cain” in this Steinbeck novel that implicitly compares its characters Cal and Aron to Cain and Abel. In it, the Chinese servant Lee defines the word timshel as “Thou mayest.”
This evil wife of Adam Trask poisons Faye, the owner of a brothel, so that she can run it herself. She also sets her family’s home ablaze, killing both of her parents.
a scar on his forehead [prompt on partial answer]
East of Eden
Cathy Ames [or Kate Trask; or Kate Albey; or Catherine Ames] &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
One poem in this collection begins “Among the market greens, a bullet from the ocean” and describes a large tuna “navigating the waters of death.” For 10 points each:
Name this poetry collection that praises mundane things, among them a “chestnut on the ground,” “tomatoes,” and “conger (“KONG-er”) chowder.”
This author of Elemental Odes wrote “In you everything sank!” in the final poem of his collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
In one poem from Elemental Odes dedicated to this thing, the author asks a poet to “let history rest in its shroud” while saying “America grew from” this thing. Gaspar Ilom is martyred in a novel named for this substance.
Elemental Odes [or Odas elementales]
Pablo Neruda
maize [or “Ode to Maize”; or Men of Maize; or Hombres de Maiz] &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
This place is found along a “dark desert highway,” and a room inside it has “mirrors on the ceiling” and “pink champagne on ice.” For 10 points each:
Name this title inn from a song by the Eagles from which you can “check out any time you like, but you can never leave.” (Imitate guitar solo here.)
It is similarly impossible to leave this room furnished in Second Empire style, which has a heavy bronze sculpture on the mantelpiece. This room has no mirrors, leading one woman to offer to be another’s looking-glass.
In this Luis Buñuel movie, a group of wealthy guests are unable to leave a dinner party; they eventually escape by reconstructing their original movements but get trapped all over again in a church.
“Hotel California”
the room from “No Exit” [or hell; or equivalents]
The Exterminating Angel [or El Angel Exterminador] &lt;JC, Trash (Music)&gt;
In this letter, the author criticizes his addressee for being an expensive date who didn’t even give him much artistic inspiration. For 10 points each:
Name this long letter titled for Psalm 130, the second half of which depicts Christ as a romantic artist. Its author states that he only wants to interact with “those who know what beauty is, and those who know what sorrow is.”
This author of De Profundis wrote the play The Importance of Being Earnest and novel The Picture of Dorian Gray.
In this poem, written from the same place as De Profundis, Wilde discusses how “each man kills the thing he loves” with either a kiss or a sword.
De Profundis
Oscar Wilde
“The Ballad of Reading Gaol (“RED-ing jail”)” &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
In one scene in this novel, an owl looks in on a sleeping woman who is dreaming about a weevil teaching ethics. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose characters include the transgender woman Anjum, who is caught in a massacre of Hindu pilgrims, and the architecture student Tilottama.
This author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness wrote a novel in which Baby Kochamma blames Sophie’s drowning on an Untouchable, The God of Small Things.
In The God of Small Things, this woman partially narrates the story. She gets married and goes to America before returning and committing incest with her twin brother Estha.
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness
Arundhati Roy
Rahel &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
In a poem by this author, the ghost of a Trojan war hero asks the title character “am I a ghost?” and in response, she wonders if he will “dare remember / the unreality of war / in this enchanted place.” For 10 points each:
Name this bisexual Imagist author who went by two initials. She wrote that the title character is looking for “the Sun / hidden behind the sun of our visible day” in her poem “Helen in Egypt.”
In this Madeline Miller retelling of the Iliad, the title hero of the Trojan War asks his companion to “name one hero who was happy,” and then says that he will be the first because of that companion.
This Modernist novel by James Joyce parallels Homer’s Odyssey by following Leopold Bloom for a single day in June of 1904.
Hilda Doolittle [accept H.D.]
The Song of Achilles
Ulysses &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
After this man pissed off the theologian Johann Goeze (“GURT-suh”), he was punished by the passage of a law that took away his freedom from censorship. For 10 points each:
Name this author who published Nathan the Wise in response to that law.
In Nathan the Wise, Saladin asks Nathan which of the three Abrahamic religions is true. Nathan responds diplomatically with a parable about a father giving each of his three sons one of these objects but not telling them which one is the original.
The first instance of the ring parable was probably in this collection of stories by Boccaccio told by travelers escaping the Black Death.
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing
rings
Decameron &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
Despite remarrying her first husband from Apex, who is ostensibly best suited to her, this character wishes she could be an ambassador’s wife at the end of a novel. For 10 points each:
Name this character who complains that pregnancy “takes a whole year” out of her life after learning she is pregnant with Ralph Marvell’s child.
Undine appears in a novel by this author, who also wrote The Age of Innocence and The House of Mirth.
This Wharton novel describes how Undine moves to New York City to pursue a series of high-class marriages and divorces with Ralph Marvell and Raymond de Chelles before remarrying Elmer Moffatt.
Undine Spragg [accept either name]
Edith Wharton
The Custom of the Country &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
An essay in this collection imagines a meeting between Justin Bieber and Martin Buber. For 10 points each:
Name this essay collection by the author of The Autograph Man. It includes an essay about Facebook and Brexit, titled “Generation Why?”, and an essay about Renaissance paintings of bodies, “Man Versus Corpse.”
Feel Free is the newest work by this author, who wrote about Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones, as well as KEVIN, an Islamic militant group that is aware it has an acronym problem, in White Teeth.
James Wood referred to Zadie Smith’s prose as this type of realism, referring to its combination of realistic individuals with absurd, heightened scenarios like the battle over the FutureMouse in White Teeth.
Feel Free
Zadie Smith
hysterical [or hysterical realism] &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
An essay about this man notes that literary rules require that the reader be able to tell living characters from corpses, a detail overlooked by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was excoriated for scoring 114 out of a possible 115 “Literary Offenses” in The Deerslayer, part of his Leatherstocking Tales featuring Natty Bumppo.
This author mocked episodes like five Indians jumping out of a tree and all missing a 140-foot boat and Chingachgook (“chin-GOTCH-gook”) following the trail of a rolling cannonball in his “Fenimore Cooper’s Literary Offenses.”
Mark Twain skewered this other author by creating a dystopia about the “Secret History” of her “World Empire” and an essay in which he says that her writing is “plainer than it was before” when read backwards.
James Fenimore Cooper
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Mary Baker Eddy &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
This massive work begins with “The Reed Flute’s Song,” in which the flute laments that it has been separated from its reed bed. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of Sufi poetry in the form of 25,000 couplets divided into six books, the last of which is unfinished.
This 13th-century Sufi mystic wrote the Spiritual Couplets at the urging of his disciple Husam al-Din Chalabi.
Rumi’s 45,000-line collection of poetry Divan-e Kabir is partially named after this man, who taught him alone for forty days.
Spiritual Couplets [or Masnawi; or Masnavi]
Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi [or Mawlana; or Mawlawi]
Shams-i-Tabrizi [or Shams al-Din Mohammad] &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
This story details the travels of Tomás Rodaja through the cities of Italy before he settles and goes to school. For 10 points each:
Name this story whose main character is confined to bed for six months and then believes he is made of a certain substance after eating a quince filled with a love potion.
“The Lawyer of Glass” is a part of this series of short stories by Miguel de Cervantes that includes “The Jealous Extremaduran.”
The Exemplary Novels were published just before the publication of the second part of this novel, Cervantes’ magnum opus about a wannabe knight-errant who travels on Rocinante.
“The Lawyer of Glass” [or “El licenciado Vidriera”; or “The Glass Graduate”; or “Doctor Glass-Case”; accept translations]
Exemplary Novels [or Novelas Exemplares]
Don Quixote &lt;MT, European Literature&gt;
In a short story that takes place in this city, mustaches are described as something “to which the better part of a life has been devoted.” For 10 points each:
Name this city, the setting of a story that features womens’ scarves as a “sea of butterflies… rippling above black beetles of the male sex” and ends by describing the devil lighting lamps.
In this story set in St. Petersburg, Piskaryov falls in love with a dark-haired woman, but kills himself after finding out she is a prostitute. He is contrasted with Pirogov, who eats puff pastries and is beaten up by a German tinsmith in this work.
This author of “Nevsky Prospekt” wrote about Khoma getting ridden by a witch in “Viy” (“vee”). He wrote “The Overcoat” and “The Nose.”
St. Petersburg
“Nevsky Prospekt”
Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol &lt;LC, European Literature&gt;
The title character of this novel is able to see colorful geometric shapes when she focuses on the movement of elevators. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Lila Mae Watson is the first black woman in the title sect of psychic elevator inspectors, who struggle against the powerful Empiricist inspectors.
This author of The Intuitionist won the Pulitzer for a novel about slaves escaping via a literal subway, The Underground Railroad. He wrote about watching the Olympics with the “Sebald 3000” app in “Hard Times in the Uncanny Valley.”
The protagonists of The Underground Railroad are Cora and this man. In another work, a funeral oration claims “I come to bury” a man of this name, “not to praise him,” and begins “Friends, Romans, countrymen.”
The Intuitionist
Colson Whitehead
Caesar [or Julius Caesar; prompt on Julius] &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
The title character of this novel is described as “a nobleman, more remarkable for his singularities, than his rank” who has a “dead grey eye.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel written in “The Year Without a Summer.” In it, the suave title character kills Ianthe (“eye-ANN-thee”) and dies laughing. He later reappears to seduce the protagonist Aubrey’s sister and vanishes.
Polidori’s The Vampyre was composed in a ghost story contest with Lord Byron and the Shelleys. This Mary Shelley novella about the title “modern Prometheus” also came out of that contest.
The Creature tells Frankenstein that he will “be with him on his wedding night.” Frankenstein interprets this as a threat against himself and is thus unprepared when the Creature kills this woman, his fiancée.
The Vampyre
Frankenstein; or, a Modern Prometheus
Elizabeth Lavenza [accept either name] &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
In one epic, this character’s wife says that Emperor Hugo is better-looking than him, so he goes to visit Hugo in his fancy rotating palace on a pole. For 10 points each:
Name this character who takes his friend, the elf-knight Elegast, to steal from his traitorous brother-in-law Eggeric van Eggermonde. Many epics, including Morgante, focus around this man’s subordinates.
In medieval folklore, Charlemagne is described in an epic poem titled after “The Song of” this man, his most famous paladin.
This other paladin of Charlemagne betrayed his army to the Muslims and led to the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. For his betrayal, four fiery horses tear him limb from limb.
Charlemagne
Roland
Ganelon &lt;JC, Mythology&gt;
In a novel by a man who was once this type of person, he describes using drugs like “brown-brown” and “white pills.” For 10 points each:
Name this type of person. Ishmael Beah’s (“BAY-ah’s”) A Long Way Gone is an account of his time as one of these people, who were commonly recruited by the Revolutionary United Front at a young age.
Ishmael Beah wrote the foreword to this book by Mariatu Kamara that depicts her experiences at the hands of child soldiers in the RUF.
In this Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie novel, the thirteen-year-old Ugwu works as a houseboy for the math professor Odenigbo before he is conscripted as a child soldier. This novel’s title comes from the flag of Biafra.
child soldier [accept equivalents]
The Bite of the Mango
Half of a Yellow Sun &lt;MT, World Literature&gt;
Being jealous of a bird – it happens to the best of us. For 10 points each:
In one poem, this Roman author wishes that he could play with his lover Lesbia like her pet sparrow, and later laments at her sorrow when it dies. He threatened to sodomize Furius and Aurelius in Carmen 16.
The return of “dark swallows” symbolizes the end of a relationship in this Spanish post-Romantic poet’s The Book of Sparrows. He wrote “What is poetry?… Poetry is you” in Rimas.
In this play, the title character’s lover decapitates her canary Serena after she tries to bring it with them on their quest to run away and start a hotel.
Catullus
Gustavo Adolfo Becquer
Miss Julie &lt;JC, European Literature&gt;
This character scribbles a note addressed to the President claiming that the “life of every citizen is becoming a business” because the IRS is turning the US into a “nation of bookkeepers.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who accepts his friend Libbie’s offer to visit Montauk to avoid vacationing with Ramona, a lover who teaches him the phrase “una navaja en la liga” (“OO-na na-VAH-ha en la LEE-gah”).
In Herzog, much of Herzog’s life is revealed through these items. These items relate the story in epistolary novels.
Herzog teaches a college class on “The Roots of” this literary movement that, with Christianity, names his only published book. Penelope Fitzgerald’s The Blue Flower is titled for a symbol of this literary movement in Germany.
Moses Herzog [accept either name]
letters
Romanticism [or Romantic movement; accept “The Roots of Romanticism”] &lt;Long Fiction, EL&gt;
While gazing at one of these geographical features, the speaker of a poem claims, “They demanded a song” and “May this right hand be withered for ever, / Ere it string our high harp for the foe!” For 10 points each:
Name these features, one of which names a poem in which the speaker asks, “let me perish young— / Live as I lived, and love as I have loved.” Countess Guiccioli (“gwee-CHOH-lee”) inspired that poem in which the speaker hopes that she remembers him when looking at one of these features.
Countess Guiccioli was the lover of this English poet, the author of Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage, whom she helped write Don Juan.
Guiccioli also inspired Byron’s translation of Canto Five of Dante’s Inferno, which tells the story of this woman who kisses her lover after reading about Lancelot’s forbidden love. This woman’s killer, Gianciotto Malatesta, is awaited by Caina.
rivers [or the Po River; or the rivers of Babylon]
George Gordon, Lord Byron [accept either name]
Francesca da Rimini [or Francesca of Rimini] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
This essay argues that most criminals are not “marvelous Macbeths or villainous Vautrins” but what any “respectable, commonplace” person would be if they did not have enough to eat. For 10 points each:
Name this essay that uses the punishments for crimes against property and against people as evidence that “man’s personality has been absorbed by his possessions.” This essay also asks “Who taught them the trick of tyranny?” while discussing public corruption of art.
“The Soul of Man Under Socialism” is an essay by this author of “De Profundis.” His only novel is The Picture of Dorian Gray.
In “The Soul of Man,” Wilde claimed that “the note of rebellion is sometimes too strong” in this poet’s work, which includes a poem that ends “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?”
“The Soul of Man Under Socialism”
Oscar Wilde
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
A poetic cycle titled for this man opens with him imploring his country to “waken!… if any foe rejects us, / We’ll broil their liver for our breakfast / and fry their balls like bacon!” For 10 points each:
Name this man who titles a W. D. Snodgrass poetry collection written from the viewpoints of people in his government. Professors in William Gass’s The Tunnel and Don DeLillo’s White Noise study this man.
This poet wrote the lines “What mad Nijinsky wrote / About Diaghilev / Is true of the normal heart” in the poem “September 1, 1939,” which is titled for the day when Hitler’s Germany invaded Poland.
The speaker rambles “—Many times Diaghilev wanted me / to make love to him / as if he were / a woman—” in this poet’s “The War of Vaslav Nijinsky.” This neo-Confessional poet won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry and has written in personas such as the anorexic “Ellen West” and the real-life serial killer “Herbert White.”
Adolf Hitler
W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
Frank Bidart &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
This geographical feature is surrounded by plains where “loneliness is an aspect of the land” according to a memoir that says “your imagination comes to life, and this, you think, is where Creation was begun.” For 10 points each:
Name this geographical feature that names an N. Scott Momaday memoir in which the author visits his grandmother’s grave.
Rainy Mountain is in this state, which is home to the Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”) people described in Momaday’s book. The Joad family leaves this state for California in John Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath.
In The Way to Rainy Mountain, Momaday says that these things “belong in the distance; it is their domain.” Momaday won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for a novel titled for one of these things “Made of Dawn.”
Rainy Mountain [accept The Way to Rainy Mountain]
Oklahoma
houses [accept House Made of Dawn] &lt;Long Fiction, EL&gt;
Two characters in a play interrupt a discussion about this problem to define carnal embrace, defining it at various points as “the practice of throwing one’s arms around a side of beef” and a “sexual congress.” For 10 points each:
Name this problem that is discussed in a play in which a tutor hopes that it will occupy his pupil long enough for him to read The Couch of Eros.
Septimus Hodge and Thomasina Coverly discuss Fermat’s Last Theorem at the beginning of this Tom Stoppard play, in which Hannah Jarvis searches for the Sidley Hermit.
Thomasina claims that “everything is turned to love” with this woman who “carnal embraced the enemy.” Septimus quote-unquote “translates” the lines “the barge she sat in… the poop was beaten gold” about this woman, who rolls herself up in a carpet to meet with her rival and lover.
the proof of Fermat’s Last Theorem
Arcadia
Cleopatra &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
In a novel much admired by Dom Pedro II, a woman in this role named Isaura (“ee-ZOW-ruh”) battles the treacherous plots of Leoncio Almeida and gets engaged to the dwarf Melchior before finally marrying Alvaro. For 10 points each:
Identify this title role of a Bernardo Guimarães (“ghee-mah-RYE’sh”) novel. Another woman with this role brings her injured enemy to the Quaker Rachel for medical attention after George shoots him.
A Escrava Isaura (“ah iss-KRAH-vuh ee-ZOW-ruh”) was written in this language. While in exile, Luís de Camões (“kah-MOYSH”) wrote an epic in this language framed around the travels of Vasco da Gama.
Critics frequently compare Isaura to this other literary slave who leaps across “cakes” of ice on the Ohio River while fleeing to freedom.
slave [or slave girl; accept A Escrava Isaura or Isaura the Slave]
Portuguese [or português]
Eliza (from Uncle Tom’s Cabin) &lt;Long Fiction, JC&gt;
The speaker twice claims “We goofed the whole thing” after this object came and ends with the parenthetical line “Though ain’t no vision visited my cell.” For 10 points each:
Name this object, the focus of that Etheridge Knight poem. The speaker claims “If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head” in a poem that begins “My mistress’ eyes are nothing like” this object.
In a poem titled for this literary form, Knight described how “Once upon a today and yesterday and nevermore,” seven prisoners argued about how to escape. Aesop’s writings in this form include “The Tortoise and the Hare.”
Knight was part of a literary movement that was kickstarted by this poem, which begins “Poems are bullshit unless they are / Teeth or trees or lemons / On a step.” This Amiri Baraka poem ends by commanding “Let All Black People Speak This Poem / Silently / Or LOUD.”
the Sun [or “The Sun Came”]
fable [or “A Fable”]
“Black Art” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
John Gower wrote <em>Confessio Amantis</em> in English, <em>Vox Clamantis</em> in Latin, and a poem tiled for one of these objects in French. For 10 points each:
Name these objects that also title the first printed English book with illustrations, William Caxton’s translation of Gautier de Metz’s Image du Monde. These objects also name a genre aimed at advising rulers on courtly conduct.
The tale of Apollonius of Tyre in the eighth book of John Gower’s Confessio Amantis inspired this author’s play co-written with George Wilkins, in which Gower plays the part of the Chorus.
In Confessio Amantis, Genius guides a lover in discussing these concepts in order to reach absolution, with incest replacing lechery. Later morality plays often personified this numbered set of concepts from Christian tradition.
mirrors [or mirrors for princes; or specula principum; or speculum; or Mirour de l’Omme; or The Myrrour of the World]
William Shakespeare
Seven Deadly Sins [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Misc. Lit, AK&gt;
Derek Walcott’s writings belong to a style of literature that reflects the aftermath of this process. For 10 points each:
Identify this process in which people from one country or region settle the land of another, typically through force. In the modern era, it is usually associated with European imperialism.
A Brown University professor with this surname wrote a widely-cited “critical introduction” to postcolonialism, as well as the book Affective Communities. Erik Erikson wrote a psychological biography of a man with this surname as a follow-up to Young Man Luther.
This Frenchman’s essay “What is a Nation?” has been cited by many postcolonial authors, such as Edward Said (“sah-EED”) and Aimé Césaire (“eh-MAY say-ZAIR”), as an exemplar of Orientalism. During his life, this author was best known for his Life of Jesus.
colonization [or colonialism; or anything mentioning colonizing; prompt on imperialism]
Gandhi [accept Leela Gandhi or Mohandas Gandhi or Gandhi’s Truth]
Ernest Renan &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
Miss Minnie Cooper is rushed out of a movie theatre while she uncontrollably laughs in a story about an event of this kind that the barber Henry Hawkshaw is unable to prevent. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of event. In another story, a boy is nicknamed “the gutless wonder of Cincinnati” for puking during an event of this kind that is interrupted by a plane crash.
The latter story, “A Party Down at the Square,” is by this author who later expounded on lynch mobs in the essay “An Extravagance of Laughter.” This author also wrote Juneteenth.
Miss Minnie Cooper appears in the former story, “Dry September,” which is by this author. The story “That Evening Sun” is narrated by Quentin Compson, who appeared in this author’s novel The Sound and the Fury.
lynching [or lynch mob; accept answers indicating an extrajudicial killing of a black person; prompt on hanging]
Ralph Waldo Ellison
William Cuthbert Faulkner &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
An author from this country depicted the narrator’s unhappy relationship with Lilly, a woman who asks him “So can’t we just be cozy?” in a story that explores the dark side of her country’s concept of <em>hygge</em> (“HEW-guh”). For 10 points each:
Name this country home to an author who included “The Heron” and “Hair Salon” in her short story collection Karate Chop. Miss Nat-og-Dag (“nat-oh-day”) tells the story of Calypso, a girl who almost chops her own breasts off, in another short story from this country.
Miss Nat-og-Dag appears in “The Deluge at Norderney,” a short story from this Danish collection that was originally written in English, and which also includes “Babette’s Feast.”
This earlier Danish author wrote fairy tales such as “The Little Mermaid” and “The Ugly Duckling.”
Denmark (The author of Karate Chop is Dorthe Nors.)
Seven Gothic Tales [or Syv Fantastiske Fortællinger] (by Isak Dinesen)
Hans Christian Andersen &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
Name these authors discussed in Colm Tóibín’s (“CALL-um toh-BEAN’s”) <em>New Ways to Kill Your Mother</em>, for 10 points each.
Tóibín opens the book discussing the liberating power of dead mothers and active aunts in the works of this author, whose Aunts include Lady Catherine de Bourgh in Pride and Prejudice.
Tóibín argues that for this author, “the suburban house” was “a sort of hell,” which is visible in stories like “The Country Husband.” That essay connects this author’s family’s love of his older brother to Moses and Coverly in this author’s novels about the Wapshot family.
Tóibín discusses this author’s obsession with and fear of becoming like his sister, whose madness inspired his play Out Cry. This author described his relationship with that sister in “The Resemblance Between a Violin Case and a Coffin.”
Jane Austen
John Cheever
Tennessee Williams &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
Answer some things related to the criticism of Walter Kerr, for 10 points each.
Kerr punningly quipped “Me no Leica (“LIKE-uh”)” about I am a Camera, which was later adapted into this Broadway musical. Sally Bowles features in this musical set in Weimar Germany.
In disparaging this musical, Kerr recommended it to “those who have always found Sir James M. Barrie pretty rough stuff.” This musical includes such songs as “Do Re Mi” and “So Long, Farewell.”
After arguing that theatre had been imitating Ibsen and Chekhov for decades, Kerr argued in his book How Not to Write a Play that this playwright exemplified a good new direction. A play by this author details Thomas Mendip’s desire to be hanged for allegedly killing Old Skipps.
Cabaret
The Sound of Music
Christopher Fry (The play is The Lady’s Not for Burning.) &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
In “Two Directions for the Novel,” Zadie Smith wrote that this novel sits at an “anxiety crossroads” between the Anglo-American liberal middle class and Balzac-Flaubert lyrical realism. For 10 points each:
Name this Joseph O’Neill novel about Hans van den Broek, a stock analyst who meets the Trinidadian man Chuck Ramkissoon playing cricket on Staten Island.
In “Generation Why,” Smith argued that The Social Network, a movie about this social media platform, is a “cruel portrait” of “500 million sentient people entrapped in the recent careless thoughts of a Harvard sophomore.”
Smith wrote “If you are brown and decide to date a British man, sooner or later he will present you with” a painting by this man, probably involving “nudity” or “spherical fruit.” This painter was fictionalized as Charles Strickland in W. Somerset Maugham’s The Moon and Sixpence.
Netherland [do not accept or prompt on “Netherlands”]
Facebook
Paul Gauguin &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
Answer the following about dramatic performances in works of fiction, for 10 points each.
In Vladimir Nabokov’s Lolita, Dolores’ school puts on a performance of this play written by Clare Quilty.
In The Crying of Lot 49, Oedipa Maas is taken to a performance of The Courier’s Tragedy by this character, with whom she is having an affair.
The “rude mechanicals” perform Pyramus and Thisbe for the Duke of Athens’s wedding in this William Shakespeare play in which Puck delivers a closing monologue.
The Enchanted Hunters
John Metzger [accept either name]
A Midsummer Night’s Dream &lt;Long Fiction, BB&gt;
Demonstrate your deep knowledge of Men at Work and the culture of their beautiful home country of Australia, for 10 points each.
Australia is often referred to as “the Land” described by this two-word phrase, largely due to its southern location. Not coincidentally, Men At Work used this two-word phrase to title their best-known single.
In “Down Under,” the singer refers to being in a “den” in a place of this name. It’s unclear whether this refers to the rock venue of this name in Melbourne, which closed after a 1991 fire, or to the non-Australian city of this name, whose Anglicized name was replaced by Shiv Sena’s government.
“Down Under” also speaks of a mysterious smiling man who gives the singer a sandwich covered with this popular Australian food spread, which you can basically call the Australian equivalent of the PB&amp;J.
Down Under [accept The Land Down Under]
Bombay [or Mumbai]
Vegemite [accept Vegemite sandwich] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
Much of Martin Carter’s poetry was informed by his experience with these places, which he asked to be sent to “quickly” in five poems written in response to a crackdown in his native Guyana. For 10 points each:
Identify these places that title a poem with the lines “And alien tears will fill for him / Pity’s long-broken urn” and “Each man kills the thing he loves.” At the same one of these places, the author wrote a letter to “Bosie.”
Dennis Brutus, a poet from this country, was imprisoned for his repeated attempts to get it banned from the Olympics. Poets from this country include Breyten Breytenbach, who wrote in Afrikaans.
This Turkish Communist poet spent much of his life imprisoned for political reasons, such as inciting military cadets to revolt with works like The Epic of Sheikh Bedreddin. This poet’s other writings include the epic verse novel Human Landscapes From My Country.
jails [or prisons] (The works are Jail Me Quickly, “Ballad of Reading Gaol,” and De Profundis.)
South Africa [or Republic of South Africa]
Nazim Hikmet [or Nazim Hikmet Ran] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
Cashman Kerr Prince challenged classical renderings of a sex position described by this item for relying on hypothetical depictions of crouching lions on these items without archaeological evidence. For 10 points each:
Identify this cooking item. Lysistrata instructs her followers to repeat “I will not stand a lioness upon” this item.
Kerr Prince linked the image of lionesses to transgression using a scene in which Teucer instructs Tecmessa in a scene in one of this man’s plays. This author also wrote Oedipus Rex and Antigone.
Kerr Prince analyzed the cheese-grater using a scene from this play in which Bdelycleon (“deh-LICK-lee-on”) summons a cheese-grater as a witness to defend a dog accused of stealing cheese in a trial that was arranged to assuage Bdelycleon’s trial-loving father.
cheese-grater [prompt on grater]
Sophocles
The Wasps [or Sphekes] &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
Name these novels that feature horrific World War II bombings, for 10 points each.
Billy Pilgrim becomes “unstuck in time” and relives his survival of the firebombing of Dresden in this novel by Kurt Vonnegut.
A Soviet bombing sets fire to several of the huts that Jewish prisoners inhabit in Chapter 17 of this memoir, which describes author Primo Levi’s experience of World War II.
Shigematsu Shizuma’s niece Yasuko is affected by fallout from the bombing of Hiroshima in this best-known novel by Masuji Ibuse (“ee-boo-say”), which was adapted into a film by Shōhei Imamura.
Slaughterhouse-Five [or Slaughterhouse-Five, or, The Children’s Crusade: A Dance with Death]
If This is a Man [or Se questo è un uomo or Survival in Auschwitz]
Black Rain [or Kuroi Ame] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
A poem states that if we cannot adorn this location with a “bas-relief” sculpted from the “wars of earth and heaven,” we should “let this boundary stone say no / To the dark flights of blasphemy hereafter.” For 10 points each:
Identify this location described in a poem by Stéphane Mallarmé which claims that it is the place where “the Poet” is “Changed by Eternity to himself at last.”
This other French poet said that he found the essential connection between Baudelaire and Poe in the first line of Mallarmé’s poem. He also described visiting tombs in his poem “The Graveyard by the Sea.”
This Frenchman described visiting his daughter Léopoldine’s grave in “Demain dès l’aube” (“duh-MAN day LOBE”). This man was best known as a poet in France during his lifetime, but today he is known for Les misérables.
the tomb of Edgar Allan Poe [accept “The Tomb of Edgar Poe” or “Le tombeau d’Edgar Poe”; prompt on tomb or tombeau by asking “whose tomb?”]
Paul Valéry
Victor Hugo &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
A Molly Fischer profile of this poet in which she spends most of the time discussing book design was discussed in a Deadspin article titled this poet “Seems Utterly Uninterested In Reading Books.” For 10 points each:
Name this Instagram poet of Sikh ancestry behind the collection Milk and Honey. She was dubbed the “Queen of the Instapoets” by Rolling Stone.
The New York Times called Kaur a mix between Cat Power and this author of Notes from a Dirty Old Man, who created Henry Chinaski for his novels Ham on Rye and Post Office.
This Kenyan-born Somali poet, who wrote “for women who are ‘difficult’ to love” and released the collection Teaching My Mother How to Give Birth, was dubbed the “laureate” of the social media poets by the New Yorker. Her work was featured on Beyoncé’s visual album Lemonade.
Rupi Kaur
Charles Bukowski
Warsan Shire &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
A poetic genre in which the last word of each line in a poem is taken, in order, from a line or lines in another poem, was pioneered by Terrance Hayes in “The Golden Shovel,” a poem named for a type of this location. For 10 points each:
Identify this sort of establishment. The inhabitants of another one of them, also called the Golden Shovel, “Jazz June” and “Die Soon” in a different poem.
“Seven at the Golden Shovel” is the second line of “We Real Cool,” a poem by this author.
A Brooks poem whose first title word is one of these places begins “we are things of dry hours” and asks if dreams can “flutter, or sing an aria down these rooms.” Richard Wright, who wrote a story about a “one room” version of these places, claimed that only a person who lived in one of these could render their “lonely frustration.”
pool hall [or billiards hall; or snooker hall]
Gwendolyn Brooks
kitchenette [accept “The Kitchenette Building” or “One Room Kitchenette”; do not accept or prompt on “kitchen”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
A naturalist and author from this family described his upbringing on the island of Corfu in the so-called “Corfu trilogy,” which includes <em>My Life and Other Animals</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this literary family. An author from this family fictionalized Wyndham (“WIND-um”) Lewis as the writer Pursewarden in a novel whose title homosexual mystic creates a manuscript called “Interlinear.”
The first novel in Lawrence Durrell’s Alexandria Quartet is titled for a Jewish woman with this name who marries the Copt Nessim. In a 1791 novel written in French, the title woman of this name relates her sexual exploitation by monks after she goes to confess in a monastery.
The 1791 Justine that inspired Durrell’s Justine was written by this French author, who wrote about even more graphic orgies in 120 Days of Sodom.
Durrell family (The latter novel is Balthazar from Lawrence Durrell’s Alexandria Quartet.)
Justine
Marquis de Sade (“mar-KEE duh SOD”) [or Donatien Alphonse François, Marquis de Sade] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
In <em>The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind</em>, Julian Jaynes considers the use of this Greek word in the Iliad to mean “breath” or “blood” as evidence for bicameralism. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek word. A figure named after this word is told by a tower to bring cakes of honey and barley on a journey to Taenarus.
After being persuaded by her envious sisters, Psyche tries to use an oil lamp see this figure, her husband, but ends up spilling oil on him. This Roman mythological character is the son of Venus.
The tale of Cupid and Psyche is told in this Roman novel, which ends with the protagonist Lucius being initiated into the cult of Isis.
psyche [or Psyche; prompt on soul]
Cupid [do not accept or prompt on “Eros”]
The Golden Ass (by Apuleius) &lt;Mythology, AK&gt;
Mrs. Drovers can remember everything about a 25-year-old affair except for the man’s face in an Elizabeth Bowen story titled for a “lover” of these characters. For 10 points each:
Identify these characters who name a Scottish ballad alternatively titled for James Harris. Another “lover” of these characters titles a Shirley Jackson story in which a woman searches for her disappeared fiancée Jamie.
This literary critic asked “What then has Bowen given us except nuance, bittersweet and intelligent?” before answering “Much, much more.” A 1990 book by this critic argues against the “School of Resentment,” which supposedly places political motive over literary value.
Bowen was born in this city and described her childhood here in the memoir Seven Winters. This city is the setting of a James Joyce collection of stories that includes “Araby” and “The Dead.”
demons [accept “The Demon Lover” or “The Daemon Lover”]
Harold Bloom [prompt on Bloom] (The book is The Western Canon.)
Dublin [accept Dubliners] &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
This country is the setting of Shyam Selvadurai’s <em>Funny Boy</em>, which follows Arjie, a Sri Lankan immigrant to this country who struggles with the intersection of his gay identity and conservative Tamil family. For 10 points each:
Name this country that is also the setting of a novel about the painter Elaine Risley, who reflects on her teenage years while reminiscing about the precious cat’s-eye marble that she kept in her purse.
A classic coming-of-age novel by Canadian author Lucy Maud Montgomery is titled for this orphan girl, who helps Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert run their farm in the town of Avonlea (“AV-un-lee”) on Prince Edward Island.
This Japanese-Canadian author’s coming-of-age graphic novels include Skim, which follows a teenage girl who is described as “not slim,” and This One Summer, whose protagonists meet in the town of Awago each summer. She wrote the She-Hulk series for Marvel.
Canada (Cat’s Eye is by Margaret Atwood.)
Anne of Green Gables [or Anne Shirley]
Mariko Tamaki &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
This poet’s Pulitzer-winning collection <em>Divine Comedies</em> contains “The Book of Ephraim,” which describes a number of conversations with friends in another world. For 10 points each:
Name this American poet who used a ouija (“WEE-juh”) board to write The Changing Light at Sandover.
Matt, a character from The Changing Light at Sandover, shares this surname with Merrill’s long-term partner, David. An author with this surname wrote about a town sacrificially stoning one of its residents in “The Lottery.”
Merrill’s poem titled “For” this author opens “You stop for breath outside the lit hotel,” referencing this author’s asthma. The poem later states “There had been a little phrase / She hummed,” referencing a novel by this author in which a “little phrase” in a violin sonata evokes the narrator’s love.
James Merrill
Jackson [accept Matt Jackson or David Jackson or Shirley Jackson]
Marcel Proust [accept “For Proust”] &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
Answer the following related to women’s exploration of the UK immigrant experience, for 10 points each.
This Bangladeshi-born British novelist wrote the novel Brick Lane about the title neighborhood of Bangladeshi immigrants.
Xiaolu Guo (“sh’yao-loo gwoh”) wrote a novel whose protagonist, a Chinese immigrant woman in the UK, writes one of these books “for lovers.” Samuel Johnson created a famous example of these books.
British-Nigerian author Buchi Emecheta’s novel Gwendolen follows a girl of this nationality who is sexually abused by Uncle Johnny. In Zadie Smith’s novel White Teeth, the Jehovah’s Witness Clara Bowden and her mother Hortense are both of this nationality, which is also the nationality of Zadie Smith’s mother.
Monica Ali
dictionary [accept A Concise Chinese-English Dictionary for Lovers]
Jamaican [or Jamaica] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
Lady Augusta Gregory collected a number of stories about this man and published them in translation in 1902, but left out some of his more exotic traits such as spiky hair. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who is forbidden to eat dog’s meat by a geis (“gesh”) curse that eventually causes his demise.
Cú Chulainn is a hero from the “cycle” of stories named for and set in this northern region of Ireland whose flag contains a red hand.
Among Cú Chulainn’s strange features is this ability, which he once triggered by sucking in his eye, and which monstrously alters his body to make him formidable in battle. You may give either the Irish term or either of the two common English translations, used by Thomas Kinsella and Joseph Campbell.
Cú Chulainn (“koo KULL-in”) [or Setanta; accept Cuchulain of Muirthemne]
Ulster [accept Ulster Cycle]
ríastrad (“REE-uh-strahd”) [or warp-spasm or hero’s paroxysm or hero paroxysm; do not accept or prompt on partial answers] &lt;Mythology, WA&gt;
This author’s story “Gusev” is based on a real-life burial at sea that he witnessed during a journey to Sakhalin. For 10 points each:
Name this author who also used a seaside setting to open a story in which a misogynistic man befriends the wife of the nobleman Von Diderits.
This author’s short story “The Three Hermits” depicts three pilgrims and a bishop traveling by sea to Archangel. This author’s works of short fiction include The Death of Ivan Ilyich.
This Russian short story describes the exploits of Tiberius on the island of Capri while briefly digressing from narrating a journey on the cruise liner Atlantis by an unnamed American robber baron.
Anton Chekhov (The other story is “Lady with a Dog.”)
Leo Tolstoy
“The Gentleman from San Francisco” [or Gospodin iz San-Frantsisko] (by Ivan Bunin) &lt;Short Fiction, WA&gt;
The speaker of a poem receives an unusual, mostly-blank letter from one of these people who had been dead for forty years in “The Mysterious Arrival of an Unusual Letter.” For 10 points each:
Identify these people, one of whom waltzes with the speaker in a Theodore Roethke (“RET-kee”) poem that recalls whiskey-scented breath. Dylan Thomas’s “Do not go gentle into that good night” has been interpreted as an elegy written for a person of this type.
“The Mysterious Arrival of an Unusual Letter” was written by this poet who published “Delirium Waltz” in Blizzard of One. This author known for prose poetry wrote “In a field / I am the absence / of field” in the rather depressing “Keeping Things Whole.”
Strand’s poem “2002” says, “I am not thinking of” this being, but this being “is thinking of me.” Emily Dickinson wrote the poem “Because I could not stop for” this being.
fathers [or dads or papas or equivalents; accept “the child is the father of the man”; accept “My Papa’s Waltz”]
Mark Strand
Death &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
This author created a character who learns from a Captain that a “great scroll” written above contains knowledge of all events. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Jacques the Fatalist who was the chief editor of the first Encyclopedia, compiled by his fellow philosophes in France.
The structure of Jacques the Fatalist is based on this novel, whose phrase “every ball has its billet” was also reused by Diderot. A character in this novel describes it as “a story about a Cock and a Bull.”
Diderot claimed that Laurence Sterne, Tristram Shandy’s creator, was the English version of this author. A friar created by this author defends his precious wine by shaping a large wooden cross into a cudgel and lance, then using those weapons to brutally murder his enemies.
Denis Diderot
Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman]
François Rabelais (The character is Friar John of the Goblets and Funnels.) &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
A poetic genre named for this profession holds an annual National Gathering in Elko, Nevada, and includes such poems as “Reincarnation” by Wallace McRae and “Vegetarian’s Nightmare” by Baxter Black. For 10 points each:
Identify this profession that is the focus of novels like Larry McMurtry’s Lonesome Dove and Owen Wister’s The Virginian.
This author of Border Trilogy and No Country for Old Men included an epilogue about the closing of the frontier in his novel Blood Meridian.
The title character of this classic of cowboy poetry by Robert W. Service tells its speaker after the title event that “Since I left Plumtree, down in Tennessee, it’s the first time I’ve been warm” while its speaker is caught in a snowstorm in the Yukon.
cowboys [accept cowboy poetry; prompt on cattle ranchers or ranch hands]
Cormac McCarthy
“The Cremation of Sam McGee” &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
Answer the following about the plays of the medieval author Hrosvitha of Gandersheim, for 10 points each.
Like the bestselling medieval collection The Golden Legend, most of Hrosvitha’s plays are hagiographies, meaning that they are biographies of these holy people.
The plays in Hrosvitha’s collection The Book of Drama are intended as imitations of this Roman playwright, who used Menander’s comedies as the basis for his plays The Self-Tormentor and The Eunuch.
Hrosvitha’s plays are all examples of plays of this type, which were commonly written by women who were barred from performing on stage in pre-modern Europe. This type of play, which is intended for private reading rather than public production, is exemplified by John Milton’s Samson Agonistes.
saints [or sanctus or sancti]
Terence [or Publius Terentius Afer]
closet drama [or closet play] &lt;Drama, WA&gt;
This poet advised “boys, be in nothing so moderate as in love of man” in a poem in which he remembers “the flower fades to make fruit, the fruit rots / to make earth.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Shine, Perishing Republic.” This proponent of Inhumanism in poetry said that he “made stone love stone” in building his poem “Tor House.”
In “Be Angry at the Sun,” Jeffers tells critics of America that “you are not [this poet] you know, / to lampoon these crude sketches of Caesar.” This ancient poet wrote an elegy for his lover’s pet sparrow.
Jeffers wrote “God built our peace and plastered it with wars” in a poem about this war, which is the subject of Wilfred Owen’s poem “Dulce et Decorum est.”
Robinson Jeffers [or John Robinson Jeffers]
Catullus
World War I [or WWI; accept the Great War] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
Identify these references from T. S. Eliot’s <em>The Waste Land</em>, for 10 points each.
“The Burial of the Dead” quotes the preface to this poetry collection by Charles Baudelaire with the phrase “You! hypocrite lecteur!”
“The Fire Sermon” section of The Waste Land shares its name with one of this man’s speeches. A German novel titled for this man mirrors his life as the protagonist becomes a merchant, then a ferryman.
The Waste Land quotes the alternate title of this play followed by the line “Datta. Dayadhvam. Damyata.” In Orhan Pamuk’s Snow, Sunay Zaim uses the city of Kars as the setting of his adaptation of this play.
The Flowers of Evil [or Les fleurs du mal]
The Buddha [or Siddhartha Gautama; or Siddhartha Gautama]
The Spanish Tragedy, or, Hieronymo’s Mad Againe &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
This country’s poet Julius Słowacki (“YOOL-yoos swo-VAHT-skee”) wrote the autobiographical poem “My Testament,” which correctly predicted the future fame of the author’s work. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose nationalist “Three Bards” include Słowacki, as well as Adam Mickiewicz (“ah-DOM meets-k’YEH-vitch”), who was born shortly after this country’s three partitions.
The third of the “Three Bards,” Zygmunt Krasiński, wrote a poem predicting Polish glory that is set before this time. Traditionally, aubades (“oh-BAHDS”) are poems set during this time.
This author wrote a poem about two knights named Crapulinski and Waschlapski (“vosh-LOP-skee”) who fight the “tyrant Muscovite” for Polish freedom. The line “Their gloom-enveloped eyes are tearless” begins this author’s poem about weavers in Silesia (“sigh-LEE-zhuh”).
Poland [or Polska]
dawn [or sunrise or daybreak; accept “Pre-Dawn”; prompt on morning; do not accept or prompt on “day”]
Heinrich Heine (“HIGH-nuh”) (The epic is The Silesian Weavers.) &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
Name these African-American authors who were greatly influenced by their time in Europe, for 10 points each.
Most of this author’s adult life was spent in France, with the later years spent at Saint-Paul-de-Vence. This author’s life there inspired a novel about David, who begins an affair with the title Italian waiter at a gay bar.
This author wrote his existentialist novel The Outsider after he moved to Paris in 1946 and became familiar with Jean-Paul Sartre. This author’s feud with Baldwin over his novel Native Son began in a Paris café.
This author wrote Dark Princess, a novel inspired by his experience at the 1911 Universal Races Conference in London in which Matthew Townes moves to Europe and romances the Indian princess Kautilya. This author of the “Black Flame” trilogy also wrote a biography of John Brown.
James Baldwin (The novel is Giovanni’s Room.)
Richard Wright
W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
Answer the following about the struggle over the 1959 Shakespeare in the Park Festival, for 10 points each.
This man founded the festival as well as the Public Theater. His promotion of Off-Broadway plays led to his staging of the first Off-Broadway Pulitzer Prize winner, Charles Gordone’s No Place to Be Somebody.
This New York City Parks Director opposed the festival because of Papp’s testimony before HUAC (“HYOO-ack”). This urban planner, responsible for many of New York City’s highways, is the subject of Robert Caro’s The Power Broker.
After rebuffing Moses, Papp celebrated by having the festival stage this play, “because it was about power.” This play’s title character asks “et tu, Brute?” after being stabbed by a cabal of Senators.
Joseph Papp
Robert Moses
Julius Caesar &lt;Other/Misc Academic, EL&gt;
At the end of a story by this author, a jilted schoolteacher who is fixated on the movie <em>Casablanca</em> pays a street vagrant and cuts him with a knife after the vagrant refuses to accept her charity. For 10 points each:
Name this author who included the story “Love in the Marketplace” in A Thousand Years of Good Prayers. This author explored her recurring themes of depression and the alienation of loss in the 2017 memoir Dear Friend, From My Life I Write to You in Your Life.
Though they’re more prominent in her novel The Hundred Secret Senses, this author tackled the intersection of personal narrative and emotions in her novel about the immigrant experience, The Joy Luck Club.
This author catalogued the themes of suicidal depression in his life in Darkness Visible. This author wrote about a woman who commits suicide over the guilt of allowing her daughter to die in the Holocaust in Sophie’s Choice.
Yiyun Li [accept names in either order; prompt on Li; do not accept or prompt on “Li-Young Lee,” and ask the player to repeat their answer if you can’t hear]
Amy Tan
William Styron &lt;Short Fiction, JC&gt;
This character hides a number of macaroons in her pocket when her husband enters the room and asks “Is my little squirrel bustling about?” For 10 points each:
Name this character who forges her father’s signature in order to obtain a loan to fund a trip to Italy.
Nora leaves her husband Torvald and their children in this Norwegian author’s play A Doll’s House.
Though Ibsen is often considered an early feminist playwright, Adrienne Rich used this Ibsen play as a prime example of how male artists use women in an essay of the same title. In this play, a man refuses to consummate his relationship with his wife for fear of ruining his masterpiece, titled Resurrection.
Nora Helmer
Henrik Ibsen
When We Dead Awaken [or Når vi døde vågner] &lt;Drama, WA&gt;
The protagonist of the novel <em>The Carnal Prayer Mat</em>, Weiyangsheng (“way-yong-shung”), is a man with this occupation who has a magician splice strips of a dog’s penis onto his own to enhance its power. For 10 points each:
Give this occupation that The Carnal Prayer Mat is alternately titled for a “midnight” example of. A loosely structured comic novel by Wu Jingzi (“woo jing-dzuh”) follows several people of this occupation.
Novels satirizing scholars, such as those of the “talent and beauty” genre, became popular during this final ruling Chinese dynasty. Writers such as Lu Xun (“loo shwun”) wrote in the aftermath of this dynasty’s collapse in the 1910s.
This novel’s characters include Xiao Rang (“sh’yao rong”), whose nickname is “Sacred Handed Scholar.” Pearl Buck made a bad translation of this novel under the title All Men Are Brothers.
scholars [accept The Scholars or The Midnight Scholar or literati or shì; prompt on intellectuals or academics]
Qing dynasty [or Manchu dynasty]
Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh or The Marshes of Mount Liang or Shuǐhǔ Zhuàn] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
A poem of the genre named for this rhetorical device by Lawrence Ferlinghetti claims that “Nearby there must be / a jeweled tree” and ends with the lines “She / Will not open / He / Is not the one.” For 10 points each:
Identify this extended rhetorical device whose first known use in ancient Greek poetry occurs during a conversation between Thetis and “the artist-god.”
Book 18 of the Iliad features an ekphrasis depicting weddings and the ocean on this object. W. H. Auden wrote an ekphrastic poem on this object that imagines barbed wire fences and repeats “She looked over his shoulder.”
The ekphrastic poem “Ode on a Grecian Urn” was written by this Romantic poet of “Ode to a Nightingale.”
ekphrasis [accept ekphrastic poetry] (The Ferlinghetti poem is “Short Story on a Painting by Gustav Klimt,” which is about The Kiss.)
shield of Achilles [accept “The Shield of Achilles” or anything indicating it’s Achilles’ shield; prompt on answers about the armor of Achilles or hoplon of Achilles that don’t indicate that it’s the shield specifically; accept aspis in place of “shield”; prompt on partial answers]
John Keats &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
While confined for insanity, Christopher Smart wrote the long poem “Jubilate Agno,” which contains a list poem praising one of these animals named Jeoffry. For 10 points each:
Identify these animals. A poem about one of these animals warns, “one false step is ne’er retrieved” and “Not all that tempts your wandering eyes / And heedless hearts, is lawful prize.”
This December 2017 New Yorker short story and social media phenomenon by Kristen Roupenian describes some atrociously bad sex and the pitfalls and sometimes horrors of modern dating from a female perspective.
This author’s “Poem (As the Cat)” misplaces a metrical foot while describing a cat tripping over a flowerpot. This author’s other poems include the weirdly Twitter-memed “This is Just to Say” and “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
cats [accept “For I will consider my Cat Jeoffry” or “Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes”]
“Cat Person”
William Carlos Williams &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
Name these authors who have been thoroughly savaged by longtime New York Times critic Michiko Kakutani, for 10 points each.
Kakutani wrote “Mickey Sabbath, You’re No Portnoy” in an article calling this author’s novel Sabbath’s Theater “distasteful and disingenuous.” She wrote more favorably about this author’s American Pastoral.
Kakutani brutalized this author’s memoir The Discomfort Zone as a “portrait of the artist as a young jackass.” A girl nicknamed “Pip” with 130,000 dollars in student loan debt is the protagonist of this author’s novel Purity.
This author called Kakutani a “one-woman kamikaze” after she lambasted a 2006 novel that this author framed as an autobiography of Jesus. A nonfiction novel by this author recounts participating in a 1967 march alongside such luminaries as Dwight Macdonald and Robert Lowell.
Philip Roth
Jonathan Franzen
Norman Mailer (The novels are The Gospel According to the Son and Armies of the Night.) &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
A set of poems in this form repeatedly commands “fill the cup!” in enjoining the addressee to celebrate life with the author. For 10 points each:
Give either the common English term or the original language term for this form. It was popularized in English by a free-verse translation of lines such as “Oh, wilderness were Paradise enow!”
Though the ruba’i is a typically Persian poetic form, its name derives from this language’s word for “four.” Poetic forms in this language were adapted into many other languages thanks to the caliphate’s expansion.
Many Arabic forms were adapted by poets using this language, such Mirza Ghalib, who wrote kulliyat in both this language and Persian. This language’s modern poets include Agha Shahid Ali, who wrote the collection The Country Without a Post Office.
quatrains [or ruba’i or ruba’iyat]
Arabic [or al-’arabiyyah]
Urdu [or Urdu-Hindi or Hindi-Urdu; prompt on Hindustani; do not accept or prompt on “Hindi” alone] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
A section of this play titled “I Was Twelve, My Mother Slapped Me” tells firsthand accounts of the first periods of multiple women delivered by a single speaker. For 10 points each:
Name this Eve Ensler anthology that catalogues sexual issues from the eyes of women.
This two-time Pulitzer winner wrote Ruined, a play about women forced to sell their bodies in the war-ravaged Congo. This playwright wrote about poor residents of Pennsylvania coal country in the Pulitzer-winning Sweat.
This author has cited an attempt to reconcile the idea of the black female body being undesirable as one of the reasons why she discusses her rape when she was eight years old in her autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
The Vagina Monologues
Lynn Nottage
Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Annie Johnson] &lt;Drama, JC&gt;
A 1983 novel by Rachel Ingalls titled <em>Mrs. [this character]</em> presaged the movie <em>The Shape of Water</em> with its story about a California housewife having an affair with 6-foot-7 frog-man. For 10 points each:
Name this “mooncalf” who is “not honored with a human shape.” A poem narrated by this character imagines making a live bird out of clay and replacing its broken leg with three legs.
This poet of “Caliban Upon Setebos” wrote other dramatic monologues such as “Pippa Passes” and “My Last Duchess.”
Louis Untermeyer wrote a poem titled for “Caliban” in these places that implores, “God, if You wish for our love, / Fling us a handful of stars!” Émile Zola described a blind horse that spent its entire life in one of these places in the novel Germinal.
Caliban [accept Mrs. Caliban; accept “Caliban Upon Setebos”]
Robert Browning
coal mines [prompt on just mines] &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
Answer the following related to Anne Dacier (“doss-YAY”), a 17th-century French <em>madame</em> and scholar, for 10 points each.
Dacier was known primarily for her skill at this task, which led to her feud with Antoine Houdar de la Motte (“on-TWAHN oo-DAR duh la moat”). Matthew Arnold listed four necessities for performing one instance of this task in lectures that critiqued, among others, attempts at this task by George Chapman and Alexander Pope.
Dacier was used to illustrate St. Cyril’s attack of Hypatia of Alexandria in this author’s Philosophical Dictionary. This man used his character Dr. Pangloss to mock Leibniz in his novel Candide.
Dacier began her career by translating the work of this man, whose Pinakes catalogued the Library of Alexandria. This poet described himself transported to Mount Helicon in his Aetia.
translating Greek [accept translating Homer or translating the Odyssey or translating the Iliad; prompt on translation or other word forms]
Voltaire
Callimachus &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
The title object of a story by this author has manifested as a 20-cent coin, an astrolabe, the implication of the bottom of a well, and an actual living tiger. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose story “The Zahir” describes an object that drives people to obsession, until they can no longer perceive reality. This author also wrote “Death and the Compass.”
Murderers obsess over their victims’ teeth and imaginary beating hearts, respectively, in this author’s stories “Berenice” and “The Tell-Tale Heart.”
In this author’s story “The Idol of the Cyclades,” the title object inspires the archaeologist Morand to strip naked and prepare to kill his wife after earlier thwarting Somoza’s similar murder attempt by killing him. This author catalogued his travels through France with Carol Dunlop in The Autonauts of the Cosmoroute.
Jorge Luis Borges (“BOR-hays”)
Edgar Allan Poe
Julio Cortázar &lt;Short Fiction, JC&gt;
This poet pre-empted Burger King by several decades by using the line “Have it your way” twice in “Gubbinal,” whose title refers to a dumb person. For 10 points each:
Name this eccentric word choice enthusiast who wrote of “Heavenly labials in a world of gutturals” in “The Plot Against the Giant,” and used the word “slovenly” to describe a wilderness in “Anecdote of the Jar.”
Stevens used the odd plural “complacencies” to begin his poem titled for this day of the week. In that poem, he describes a woman’s decision to stay at home in her peignoir (“pane-WARR”) instead of attending church.
In Stevens’s “Peter Quince at the Clavier,” which describes the accosting of Susanna by the elders, Susanna is attended by a number of these people who make “a noise like tambourines.”
Wallace Stevens
Sunday [accept “Sunday Morning”]
Byzantines &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
In the <em>Phaedrus</em>, writing is presented as one of these things for King Thamus by the Egyptian god Theuth, who almost certainly represents Thoth. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek word. In an essay, Jacques Derrida notes that this word can refer to both a cure and a poison, since it is presented as both a way to help memory, or as a method of reminding that leads to forgetfulness.
Plato’s use of the word pharmakon relies on its similarity to the word pharmakos, which refers to one of these rituals in Athens. The Aztecs would sometimes perform thousands of these rituals per day to keep the sun in the sky.
In “Da Capo senza Fine” (“da KAH-po SENT-sah FEE-nay”), this philosopher argues that the embrace of Derrida in American universities was itself a kind of pharmakon. This philosopher’s works include The Sublime Object of Ideology and two movies whose titles begin with “The Pervert’s Guide.”
pharmakon [do not accept or prompt on “pharmakos” or “pharmacy”]
human sacrifices [accept any answer that refers to offering people to the gods; prompt on sacrifices or offerings or killings]
Slavoj Žižek (“SLAH-voy ZHEE-zhek”) &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
A 2012 book by Michael Fried is titled for this novelist’s tendency to remove repetitions from his prose by yelling passages from it. For 10 points each:
Name this novelist who adopted a type of third-person narration that allows character expression without attribution known as the free indirect style. This author uncompromisingly searched for le mot juste (“luh moh joost”), or “the right word.”
Fried’s book Flaubert’s “Gueuloir” (“flow-BAIR’s gull-WARR”) analyzes both Salammbô and this other novel by Flaubert, which centers on an unhappy doctor’s wife who has affairs with Léon Dupuis (“doo-PWEE”) and Rodolphe Boulanger.
Flaubert began Madame Bovary after reading this novel aloud to his friends, only to be told that his work should take a realist approach. Flaubert spent over thirty years writing this novel.
Gustave Flaubert
Madame Bovary
The Temptation of Saint Anthony [or La Tentation de Saint Antoine] &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;
This country is the setting of a novel in which Kitty Fremont and Karen Hansen help defeat a British blockade of the title ship. For 10 points each:
Name this country home to the authors of A Tale of Love and Darkness and Open Closed Open. This country was also home to an author whose distinct word choice is referred to as “Agnonit” (“ogg-no-NEET”).
This bestselling 1958 Leon Uris novel follows the Israeli independence movement and the founding of Israel. This novel takes its title from an immigration ship from the late 1940s.
This man cited Exodus as a driving example of the propagandistic and distorted view of history with which West regards the Arabic and Eastern world, a thesis that he laid out in Orientalism.
Israel (In order of mention, the authors are Amos Oz, Yehuda Amichai, and S. Y. Agnon.)
Exodus
Edward Said (“sa-EED”) &lt;Long Fiction, JC&gt;
This poet asked “Who dreamed that beauty passes like a dream” in his poem “The Rose of the World.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet whose early period produced the collection The Rose and the poem “The Lake Isle of Innisfree.” This poet wrote “Sailing to Byzantium.”
“The Rose of the World,” as well as other poems from The Rose such as “When You Are Old” and “The Countess Cathleen in Paradise,” depict Yeats’s unrequited love for this Irish nationalist activist.
“The sad rose of my days” is mentioned twice in a Yeats poem titled for a rose that is implied to waste away on one of these objects. An old poem titled for one of these objects preserved in the Vercelli Book opens “Listen! I will tell of the sweetest dreams” and describes one of these objects covered in gemstones and bloodstains.
William Butler Yeats
Maud Gonne [or Maud Gonne Macbride]
rood [accept “To the Rose Upon the Rood of Time” or Dream of the Rood; accept holy rood; prompt on cross or crucifix or True Cross by asking “what is the cross referred to as in the title?”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
A poem by Mary Oliver opens, “Ordinarily, I go to” this place “alone” and declares that “If you have ever gone to” this place “with me, I must love you very much.” For 10 points each:
Name these locations that title a book in which the author recounts a trip with his friend Stephen Katz.
This nonfiction author wrote about his hike up the Appalachian Trail in the legendary A Walk in the Woods. This author’s other nonfiction works include Notes from a Small Island and A Short History of Nearly Everything.
Henry David Thoreau retreated into the “woods to live deliberately” and recounted his journey in this book titled for the pond near which he stayed.
woods [accept forests]
Bill Bryson
Walden &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
Composers from this modern-day country include the mononymous Tansen, who names an award given to classical musicians every year. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose native instruments include the sarod, sitar, and tabla.
The sarod and other Indian string instruments can easily produce meend, which is equivalent to this Italian term from Western classical music that refers to a slide from one pitch to another.
A sarod master with this surname became the first Indian musician to receive a MacArthur grant in 1991 after he worked to bring Indian music to the US. The best-known qawwali musician of the 20th century was a man with this surname who worked with Peter Gabriel on the soundtrack to The Last Temptation of Christ.
India [or Republic of India; or Bharatiya Ganarajya]
glissando [or portamento]
Khan [accept Ali Akbar Khan or Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan] &lt;Classical Music/Opera, WA&gt;
The symbolism of the garden in this collection refers to both the medieval notion of a garden of delights, as illustrated by the tale of Masetto, and a place that offers refuge from the plague. For 10 points each:
Name this collection by Giovanni Boccaccio that consists of one hundred stories told over ten days.
Like many medieval texts that echo Boethius, the Decameron places central importance on this concept. Niccolò Machiavelli contrasted this concept with virtù, and said that both are important qualities for a leader.
In a double entendre from the Decameron, Cimon and Iphigenia join a number of Rhodians per fortuna, which could mean that either fortune or one of these events was the cause of their meeting. In the fourth story told on the second day, Landolfo experiences misfortune due to two of these events.
The Decameron [or Decamerone]
Fortuna [or fortune; prompt on luck]
a storm [or a thunderstorm or a tempest; prompt on shipwreck by asking “what causes the shipwreck?”; do not accept or prompt on “flood”] &lt;Short Fiction, WA&gt;
Melanie Benjamin’s <em>The Swans of Fifth Avenue</em> depicts this author’s New York social life, including hosting the Black and White Masquerade ball and a prominent rift with a fan, “Babe” Paley. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote a novel depicting a similar milieu in which the protagonist goes to Sing Sing prison each week to visit the racketeer Sally Tomato.
This Truman Capote novella centers on Holly Golightly, a country girl who moves to New York and becomes part of the social scene.
In an early scene in the novel, the bartender Joe Bell shows Holly some of these objects created by the Japanese man Yunioshi. Later in the novel, Yunioshi works with Holly’s roommate Meg to create several of these objects.
Truman Capote
Breakfast at Tiffany’s
photos [or photographs; prompt on pictures or images] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
In William Kelley’s <em>A Different Drummer</em>, an exodus is told mostly from the viewpoint of people with this characteristic, which Claudia Rankine founded the Racial Imaginary Institute to study. For 10 points each:
Identify this characteristic that Clare Kendry attempts to outwardly adopt in a novel by Nella Larsen. In Athol Fugard’s Blood Knot, Morrie adopted this characteristic prior to the events of the play.
The protagonist of this nonfiction book, a white journalist, injects melanin into his skin and tours the American South, chronicling the difference in treatment he receives when people believe he is of a different race.
Emma, the protagonist of this Wallace Thurman novel, comes to terms with her dark skin after moving to Harlem from her hometown of Boise. This novel takes its title from a sentence that ends with the phrase “the sweeter the juice,” which has since become a common reference for rappers like 2Pac and Kendrick.
whiteness [accept answers indicating that they’re passing as white in the racial sense; be generous; prompt on passing]
Black Like Me
The Blacker the Berry [accept “the blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice”] &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
This character’s name is shared by many of his family members, including his wife, a voice teacher, and all of his children. For 10 points each:
Name this character whose death notice in the newspaper does not surprise Mr. Smith, even though this man died two years ago. A commercial traveler who shares this man’s name rests and sleeps on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Tuesdays, even though there is no competition on those days.
Bobby Watson is mentioned in a conversation in The Bald Soprano, a play by this absurdist Romanian-born playwright of Rhinoceros.
This character in The Bald Soprano rings the doorbell, then hides himself as a joke before entering. He notes that the title character “always wears her hair the same way.”
Bobby Watson [accept either name]
Eugène Ionesco
Fire Chief [or Capitan des pompiers] &lt;Drama, BB&gt;
This word partially titles a set of poetic interviews in a creole of languages including English, Spanish, Korean, and AAVE (“A-A-V-E”) between a Guide and a Historian in a Vegas-like city named Desert. For 10 points each:
Give this word paired with “Dance” in a 2007 poetry collection by Cathy Park Hong. A spoken-word poem from the record Small Talk claims that this word “will not be brought to you by Xerox” and “will be no rerun.”
Gil Scott-Heron’s “The Revolution Will Not Be Televised” claims that neither Jim Webb nor this poet will write the “theme song” to the revolution. This lawyer wrote the poem that became “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
A B-Side track on Small Talk dismisses “pieces of silver” and “gold” and instead asks for these things “on my soul.” A 2014 Atlantic article claims that the cost of these things would offset decades of damages caused by such policies as redlining.
revolution [accept Dance Dance Revolution or “The Revolution Will Not Be Televised”]
Francis Scott Key
reparations [accept “Who Will Pay Reparations on My Soul?”; accept “The Case for Reparations”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
A character compares his repeated exposure to this substance to almost killing a bully who would not stop pinching him, before concluding that this substance was worse because he did not know who to hit. For 10 points each:
Identify this title substance of a story in which Pickard tries to use it to commit suicide. The Lieutenant promptly strips after being the only one to reach safe haven from this substance.
In a story collection, “The Long Rain” directly precedes “The Exiles,” a story in which Edgar Allen Poe and Ambrose Bierce are killed during one of these events. In another novel, Mrs. Phelps cries upon hearing “Dover Beach” read by a man whose job is to orchestrate these events.
“The Exiles” and “The Long Rain” appear in The Illustrated Man, a short story collection by this author who wrote about Guy Montag’s book burnings in Fahrenheit 451.
rain [accept “The Long Rain”; prompt on precipitation or water; do not accept or prompt on “acid rain”]
book burnings [accept equivalents; prompt on fires or burnings]
Ray Bradbury &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
Five people have won this award twice – including its first female winner, Margaret Leech, who won it for <em>Reveille in Washington</em> and <em>In the Days of McKinley</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this award whose 2018 winner was The Gulf: The Making of an American Sea, a book by Jack E. Davis. Its other winning authors include James Macpherson and C. Vann Woodward.
The 1928 Pulitzer Prize for History went to Vernon Parrington for his book examining Hamiltonian and Jeffersonian intellectual history, whose title begins with these two words. A Polish book whose English title begins with these two words dissects its title ideology as the “greatest fantasy of the 20th century.”
The first Pulitzer in History went to a diplomat and historian from this country for the book With Americans of Past and Present Days. This country and the US fought the Quasi-War.
Pulitzer Prize for History [prompt on Pulitzer or Pulitzer Prize by asking “in what subject?”; do not accept or prompt on “Pulitzer Prize for Nonfiction”]
main currents [accept Main Currents in American Thought or Main Currents of Marxism; do not accept or prompt on anything else]
France [or French Republic or République française] &lt;Historiography, WA&gt;
Milman Parry of the Parry–Lord thesis postulated that this epic’s use of phrases like “wine-dark sea” expedited its transmission through oral tradition. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek epic that follows the title hero’s twenty-year journey home to Ithaca after the Trojan War.
Homer makes heavy use of this literary device during climactic scenes or to highlight certain characters. This device consists of an extended comparison to an event outside of the narrative.
These characters provide the Odyssey’s only use of the Iliadic epithet “great glory of the Achaeans,” reminding Odysseus and the audience about the allure of past heroic exploits. These characters claim to “know everything… did and suffered in wide Troy through the gods’ despite.”
The Odyssey
epic simile [accept Homeric simile; prompt on simile]
the Sirens [or Seirenes] &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
This poet asks “where are Whitman’s wild children” and tells poets “don’t wait for the Revolution / or it’ll happen without you.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Populist Manifesto” who described a “real live barking democratic dog” “with something to say about ontology” in another poem.
Ferlinghetti’s poem “Underwear” uses the line “Do not go naked into that good night,” referring to this Welsh poet’s “Do not go gentle into that good night.”
In another poem, Ferlinghetti calls this location “a beautiful place” but “right in the middle of it / comes the smiling / mortician.” William Wordsworth declares “I’d rather be / a pagan suckled in a creed outworn” in a sonnet about being tired of this place.
Lawrence Ferlinghetti
Dylan Thomas
the world [accept “The World is a Beautiful Place” or “The World is Too Much With Us”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
A “faint scar” is the only remainder of this deformity after a surgery is successfully performed on Hassan in Khaled Hosseini’s novel <em>The Kite Runner</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this physical deformity of a title character who builds a rickshaw to carry his sick mother to Prince Albert, and who is later taken by soldiers to a rehabilitation camp.
A character known as Hare-Lip refuses to reveal his name to Rubashov, who is a fellow prisoner held and interrogated by “Number One” in this novel named for an event during Christ’s crucifixion.
Another character called Harelip wardens a captive airman in “Prize Stock,” a short story by this Nobel Prize-winning Japanese author of A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry.
hare lip [or cleft lip or cleft palate] (The latter novel is Life and Times of Michael K.)
Darkness at Noon [or Sonnerfinsternis] (by Arthur Koestler)
Kenzaburo Ōe [accept names in either order] &lt;Long Fiction, BB&gt;
Théophile Gautier’s (“tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY’s”) article “Shakespeare at the Funambules” revolutionized this character’s artistic role by reviewing a made-up pantomime in which he kills a clothes peddler and is in turn killed by the peddler’s ghost. For 10 points each:
Identify this naive and tragic character who archetypically loses his lover Columbine.
Pierrot evolved from this European genre of theater that normalized actresses on stage and relied on stock characters wearing masks and archetypal plots with heavy improvisation.
The tragedy of Pierrot figures into the plot of this author’s play Aria da Capo. She wrote the poems “Renascence” and “First Fig,” which opens “My candle burns at both ends; / it will not last the night.”
Pierrot (“p’yair-OH”)
commedia dell’arte [or comedy of the profession; prompt on partial answer]
Edna St. Vincent Millay &lt;Drama, JC&gt;
This character attempts to bite Robert before being kidnapped and ransomed for 6 guineas. For 10 points each:
Name this real-life cocker spaniel of Elizabeth Barrett Browning, the protagonist of a semi-fictionalized biography.
Flush was written by this author, who wrote a novel titled for a gender-shifting character who lives for three hundred years while composing “The Oak Tree” under the guidance of Nicholas Greene.
In another fictional biography, Daphne du Maurier (“MORE-ee-ay”) chronicles the “Infernal World” of an author with this surname. Other authors with this surname wrote Agnes Grey and Jane Eyre.
Flush
Virginia Woolf (The novel is Orlando.)
Brontë [accept Anne Brontë or Charlotte Brontë] &lt;Misc. Lit, BB&gt;
The line “Our nada who art in nada” in this author’s story “A Clean, Well-Lighted Place” reflects his belief in an uncaring universe. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose prototypical male heroes include Nick Adams, Santiago, and Jake Barnes.
In Hemingway studies, this term refers to the archetypal man who confronts the “nada” of existence and the ultimate “nada” of death with indifference, “grace under pressure,” insomnia, and alcoholism.
Grace under pressure doesn’t imply mental health. This code hero and ambulance driver reacts to the “nada” of his lover Catherine’s death during childbirth by walking back to the hotel in the rain in a celebrated final scene.
Ernest Hemingway [or Ernest Miller Hemingway]
Hemingway code hero [prompt on Hemingway hero]
Frederic Henry [accept either name; prompt on the narrator or protagonist of A Farewell to Arms] &lt;Long Fiction, JC&gt;
This poet invokes Lacan and Kripke, claiming that “a word is elegy to what it signifies” and that “All the new thinking is about loss,” before recalling the myriad metaphysical connections between him and a woman. For 10 points each:
Name this author and Berkeley professor who tries to disentangle “the bramble” of the word “blackberry,” eventually ending with the words, “blackberry blackberry blackberry,” in the poem “Meditation at Lagunitas.”
Robert Hass has produced translations of poems in this form, such as one that mourns, “This world of dew / is the world of dew / And yet, and yet–” by Kobayashi Issa. A frog jumps into a pond in another one of these poems.
This poet called frogs “great slime-kings” and wrote about “our palms sticky as Bluebeard’s” in the poem “Blackberry-Picking.”
Robert Hass
haikus
Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
The necessity of the “manly act” is a theme in this author’s first two novels, Jürg Reinhart and An Answer from the Silence. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about an UNESCO engineer whose faith in the rational is shattered in Homo Faber.
Max Frisch was from this country home to playwright Friedrich Dürrenmatt which is also the setting of a novel about Hans Castorp.
Another Swiss author was this novelist who wrote Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
Max Rudolf Frisch
Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation]
Hermann Karl Hesse
