The speaker says, “We lead a thoughtful life. But [this city]’s cage we shun” in a poem that asks, “moved you not, restless, waiting for him?” For 10 points each:
Name this city, the subject of a poem that describes an aquarium “in a Sahara of snow.” “A savage servility / slides by on grease” at the end of that Robert Lowell poem about this city.
“John Cotton shines on Boston’s sin” in a John Berryman poem titled “Homage to” this author. This Puritan poet wrote “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House.”
This poem by Bradstreet calls the title object “my rambling brat” and opens, “Thou ill-form’d offspring of my feeble brain.”
Boston
Anne Bradstreet [or Anne Dudley; accept “Homage to Mistress Bradstreet”]
“The Author to Her Book” &lt;American Literature&gt;
This book derides a certain practice as “two bits of flesh rubbing and a spurt of mucus.” For 10 points each:
Name this book, which reminds the reader that “soon you’ll be ashes or bones. A mere name at most.” Its first five books were written while the author was on a military campaign against the Quadi.
Like the Enchiridion (“EN-kye-RID-ee-on”) of Epictetus (“EP-ick-TEE-tuss”), Marcus Aurelius’s Meditations is a text from this philosophical tradition. This school taught that virtue is the highest good and encouraged emotional restraint.
Seneca the Younger wrote a Stoic work in this philosophical genre to Marcia on the death of her son. In a work titled for this genre, Philosophia teaches the author about the Wheel of Fortune as he awaits his execution.
The Meditations [or The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius; or Ta eis heauton; or To Himself; The Emperor’s Notebook; or The Golden Book of Marcus Aurelius]
Stoicism
consolations [or consolationes; accept The Consolation of Philosophy] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
This author wrote that beavers bite off their testicles when they are pursued in a collection of humorous aphorisms based on made-up animal behaviors. For 10 points each:
Name this polymath whose writings are collected in the Codex Arundel and the Codex Atlanticus. The notebooks of this polymath feature his characteristic mirror writing.
Leonardo appears as Master Bernardo in this novel by Pär Lagerkvist. He often paints studies of this novel’s title character, the 26-inch misanthrope Piccolino.
In one poem, this author lauded the “Gorgonian eyes” of a Medusa that had long been misattributed to Leonardo. This poet described the “colossal wreck” of a statue of Ramesses the Great in “Ozymandias.”
Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]
The Dwarf [or Dvärgen]
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;European Literature&gt;
Critic Ted Gioia (“JOY-uh”) contrasted a novel by this author with Doris Lessing’s more prestigious series <em>Canopus in Argos: Archives</em>, which is already out of print. For 10 points each:
Name this author. Ted Gioia credits this author with expertly using “thick description” to construct a universe centered around Hogwarts and the Wizarding World.
Gioia compliments Rowling for creating characters that are larger-than-life “types,” much like this earlier author. This author’s characters include the drunk Mr. Krook and the generous John Jarndyce.
Unlike Ted Gioia, this critic denounced the merit of Harry Potter in the article “Can 35 Million Book Buyers Be Wrong? Yes.” He also wrote The Anxiety of Influence.
J. K. Rowling [or Joanne Rowling]
Charles Dickens (Those characters are from Bleak House.)
Harold Bloom &lt;British Literature&gt;
The speaker says, “You think life is fire, / that progress is eruption; / where you put your bullet / you put the future” in a poem by this poet that criticizes US imperialism. For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “To Roosevelt.” This founder of modernismo wrote the collection Azul….
Darío wrote that this object lights Roosevelt’s “path to easy conquest.” Emma Lazarus’s poem “The New Colossus” describes this sculpture in New York Harbor as “a mighty woman with a torch.”
This Cuban poet and member of modernismo wrote Versos Sencillos (“sen-SEE-yohs”), which was sampled to write a patriotic song titled “Guantanamera.”
Rubén Darío [or Félix Rubén García Sarmiento]
the Statue of Liberty [or Liberty Enlightening the World or Lady Liberty; accept La Liberté éclairant le monde; prompt on Liberty]
José Martí [or José Julián Martí Pérez] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
This author corrected common misconceptions, which he called “vulgar errors,” in his encyclopedia <em>Pseudodoxia Epidemica</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this doctor who described his own religious beliefs in Religio Medici. He is best known for a pair of discourses titled The Garden of Cyrus and Hydriotaphia.
Hydriotaphia discusses a Roman burial ground filled with these objects near Norfolk. John Keats declared “Beauty is truth, truth beauty” in an “Ode on a Grecian” one of these objects.
Much of Browne’s work addresses this specific emotion, the subject of a 1621 “anatomy” by Robert Burton. Another of Keats’ 1819 odes, which begins “No, no, go not to Lethe (“LEE-thee”),” is a meditation on this emotion.
Thomas Browne
urns [accept “Ode on a Grecian Urn”]
melancholy [or melancholia; accept The Anatomy of Melancholy or “Ode on Melancholy”; do not accept or prompt on synonyms such as “sadness”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
This character battles Guiteclin (“GHEE-tuh-klin”) in a <em>chanson</em> (“shawn-SAWN”) by Jean Bodel, who classified legends about this man’s court as the “matter of France.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who kills Baligant and his armies after discovering the dead body of his nephew. Ganelon betrays this ruler by helping the Saracens attack the rear-guard of his army.
Charlemagne is the uncle of this hero at the Battle of the Roncevaux (“RON-suh-voh”) Pass. This knight dies midway through his namesake epic by blowing his oliphant horn to call for help.
Astolfo travels to the moon to recover Roland’s wits in this other epic from the matter of France. Roland loves the maiden Angelica in this epic by Ludovico Ariosto.
Charlemagne
Roland [or Orlando; accept the Song of Roland or Chanson de Roland]
Orlando Furioso &lt;European Literature&gt;
A novel titled for this character’s <em>Boys</em> features the Plumfield siblings and her own children, Rob and Teddy. For 10 points each:
Name this character who writes the play “The Witch’s Curse” for her and her sisters to perform. She rejects Teddy Laurie’s marriage proposal and later marries Professor Bhaer.
This author wrote about Jo teaching at a school in Little Men, which is preceded by her novel about Jo and the other March sisters titled Little Women.
In the first chapter of Little Women, Marmee suggests that the sisters act out scenes from this novel. The protagonist of this novel escapes Doubting Castle using a key called Promise.
Josephine March [or Jo March or Josephine Bhaer or Jo Bhaer; prompt on March]
Louisa May Alcott
Pilgrim’s Progress &lt;American Literature&gt;
In her essay “Professions for Women,” Virginia Woolf declared that “the occupation of the woman writer” was to kill this figure, who typified the domestic standard established by the idea of separate spheres. For 10 points each:
Name this conceptual person that titles Coventry Patmore’s most famous poem. This idealized portrayal of the perfect wife shaped household culture during the Victorian era.
Opposite the Victorian “angel” was the “woman” described by this adjective, who had lost her virtue via sex, alcohol, or a different vice. William Gladstone devoted much effort to “saving” these women, who often participated in prostitution.
In her Book of Household Management, the Victorian Isabella Beeton compared the wife to the “Household General,” who had to command these general household workers that included stewards, gardeners, and cooks.
The Angel in the House [prompt on Angel; accept “angel in the home,” which is a lesser-used term]
fallen women
servants [accept attendants; accept domestic workers; accept maids; accept butlers; accept housekeepers; accept flunkies; accept word forms of all prior answers; prompt on subordinates; prompt on employees] &lt;European History&gt;
Marguerite Bourgeoys (“boor-jwah”) began this region’s tradition of “taffy day,” during which single women would create the syrup-based St. Catherine’s Taffy for eligible husbands. For 10 points each:
Name this non-US region where the Tourtière meat pie is served alongside this region’s unique Bûche Lambert ice cream yule log as part of Réveillon celebrations.
This Quebecois comfort meal consists of a dish of cheese curds and french fries covered with gravy. This dish, voted the national food of Canada, sparked American imitations like “disco fries.”
Another Canadian delicacy is muktuk, an Inuit dish primarily made from the skin and blubber of this animal. The holiday Nalukataq marks the end of the spring hunting season of these animals amongst the Inupiaq in Alaska.
Québec
poutine [accept pot poutine or raspoutine]
whales [accept bowhead whale] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
Miguel Hernández wrote “death traverses, with rusty lances” to begin an elegy dedicated to this person. For 10 points each:
Name this person. Antonio Machado described this person as having “blood on his brow and lead in his guts” in the poem “The Crime was in Granada,” where this person was executed by fascists.
The name “Federico” is listed after “Raúl” and “Rafael” in this author’s poem “I Explain a Few Things.” This communist joined the International Brigades to fight in the Spanish Civil War and frequently used green ink.
This author asked “and you, Garcia Lorca, what were you doing down by the watermelons” in his poem “A Supermarket in California.” He also wrote “Howl.”
Federico García Lorca [prompt on García]
Pablo Neruda
Allen Ginsberg &lt;European Literature&gt;
In <em>The Skin of Our Teeth</em>, Sabina’s refusal to say that “a man outgrows a wife every seven years” upsets a man with this profession named Mr. Fitzpatrick. For 10 points each:
Name this [emphasize] main profession of a character who replies, “The saints and poets, maybe—they do some” after a woman concludes, “Oh, earth, you’re too wonderful for anyone to realize you.”
The Stage Manager introduces the people of Grover’s Corners in the play Our Town, which was written by this author of The Skin of Our Teeth.
After reliving this event from her life in the play’s final scene, Emily Webb asks the Stage Manager, “Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?”
stage manager [or stage director; prompt on manager]
Thornton Wilder [or Thornton Niven Wilder]
her twelfth birthday &lt;American Literature&gt;
A woman repeats to herself that this character is beneath her roof, which parallels a similar diary entry by this fictional character’s creator about her real-life lover Madge Vaughan. For 10 points each:
Name this character. A woman describes kissing this character at Bourton as “the most exquisite moment of her whole life.”
This author, who was in love with Madge Vaughan as a teenager, created Sally Seton in Mrs. Dalloway.
Woolf also wrote this novel inspired by her lover, Vita Sackville-West. This novel’s gender-changing protagonist lives for over three hundred years and has an affair with Elizabeth I.
Sally Seton [accept either name; accept Lady Rosseter]
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Woolf]
Orlando: A Biography &lt;British Literature&gt;
Alfred H. Marks translated one of this man’s poems into a limerick that describes a “noise heard round the bog” caused by a “curious” animal who wanted “to see what resulted.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote the travel diary The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Bashō wrote one of these poems about a frog jumping into a pond. Poems in this Japanese form have three lines consisting of five, seven, and five syllables.
A frog leaps into a brazier (“BRAY-zhur”) in one anecdote from this zuihitsu (“ZOO-ee-heet-soo”) work, which includes lists of “hateful things” and “things that make one’s heart beat faster.”
Matsuo Bashō
haiku
The Pillow Book [or Makura no Sōshi] (by Sei Shōnagon) &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Dan Pagenstecher searches for “etyms” (“ET-ims”) with sexual connotations in the works of Edgar Allan Poe in an Arno Schmidt novel titled for this character’s “Dream.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who desires to sing a ballad about his dream in front of the Duke. After pretending to kill himself during a performance, he asks the Duke if he wants to see an epilogue or a bergamask dance.
Titania, the queen of the fairies, falls in love with Bottom after Oberon charms her eyes with a magic flower in this play by William Shakespeare.
Bottom proposes that this character write the ballad that will be titled “Bottom’s Dream.” This character directs Bottom and the other “mechanicals” in performing an adaptation of Pyramus (“PEER-uh-muss”) and Thisbe (“THIZ-bee”).
Nick Bottom [accept either name]
A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Peter Quince [accept either name] &lt;British Literature&gt;
In the chapter “The House Beautiful,” the narrator discusses Charles Dickens’s opinion that certain objects in this location were not “magnificent” compared to the crown jewels or the Taj Mahal. For 10 points each:
Name this geographical feature. A memoir titled for this location is narrated by a “cub-pilot” apprenticed to Horace Bixby.
This character is painted blue and disguised as “the sick Arab” while he accompanies the Duke and the Dauphin (“DOFF-in”) on a raft down the Mississippi.
This author, who was a steamboat pilot on the Mississippi, created Jim and Huckleberry Finn.
Mississippi River [accept Life on the Mississippi]
Jim
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens] &lt;American Literature&gt;
The narrator thinks about two singing blind twins of St. Jerome and the dead people floating in the streets in a “Monologue of Isabel Watching It Rain In” this town. For 10 points each:
Name this town whose founder befriends Melquíades and dies while tied to a chestnut tree.
This Gabriel García Márquez novel set in Macondo follows seven generations of the Buendía family.
Macondo first appears in this García Márquez novella, in which Isabel’s father insists on burying a doctor hated by the town’s villagers.
Macondo
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien años de soledad]
Leaf Storm [or La Hojarasca] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
This author described a marionette with a “who-the-devil-are-you stare” in his poem “Humoresque,” which is subtitled as “after” Jules LaForgue. For 10 points each:
Name this author. Jules LaForgue influenced the colloquial language and self-deprecation in this author’s early poetry, which includes a poem that declares “No! I am not Prince Hamlet” to begin a stanza.
In addition to LaForgue, Eliot was also influenced by this earlier French poet. “The Waste Land” quotes this author’s line “Hypocrite lecteur – mon semblable – mon frère” from his collection Les Fleurs du Mal.
Eliot described “Sunday: this satisfied procession / Of definite Sunday faces” to begin a poem titled for this thing. A section of Les Fleurs du Mal is titled for this thing “and Ideal.”
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot] (That passage is from “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.”)
Charles Baudelaire
spleen [accept “Spleen and Ideal” or “Spleen et Idéal”] &lt;European Literature&gt;
One of these creatures uses Moneybags’ teleportation stations to collect light gems and defeat Red in a game subtitled “A Hero’s Tail.” For 10 points each:
Name these creatures, which include the purple Spyro. “Inquisition” is the third game in a BioWare RPG series titled for the “Age” of these creatures.
Defeating the Ender Dragon concludes this blocky Mojang game in which players battle mobs like Zombies and Creepers while using a pickaxe to harvest materials like diamonds.
In Skyrim, this “World Eater” dragon was betrayed by his brother Paarthurnax and sent forward in time by the Elder Scroll so that he could be slain by the Dovahkiin (“doh-va-KEEN”). This dragon burns down Helgen Keep in Skyrim’s introduction.
dragons [or draco or drakes; accept Dragon Age; prompt on serpents, snake, or other synonyms for reptile]
Minecraft
Alduin &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, this character “took an axe to a willow to see how it wept” and “took an axe to a salmon to see it leapt.” For 10 points each:
Name this fairy tale character who “took an axe to the wolf” and “saw the glistening, virgin white of my grandmother’s bones” in that poem. She is named for an accessory with a certain color.
In this author’s retelling, Little Red Riding Hood sleeps with the wolf instead. This author of Nights at the Circus included many fairy tale retellings in The Bloody Chamber.
Outfits featuring red cloaks in this novel allude to Little Red Riding Hood. In this novel, Nick and the Commander are thought to be stand-ins for the huntsman and the wolf.
Little Red Riding Hood [or Little Red Cap]
Angela Olive Carter [or Angela Pearce; or Angela Stalker]
The Handmaid’s Tale &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
This author describes the astronomer Caroline Herschel as “an instrument in the shape / of a woman trying to translate pulsations / into images” in her poem “Planetarium.” For 10 points each:
Name this American poet. The speaker searches for “the drowned face / always staring toward the sun” and “the ribs of the disaster” in the title poem of this author’s collection Diving into the Wreck.
The speaker “wander’d off” and “look’d up in perfect silence at the stars” in this author’s poem “When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer.” This poet also wrote Leaves of Grass.
The speaker of Rich’s poem “Yom Kippur 1984” searches for “something to bind me to this coast as” this Whitman poem “once bound me back there.” This poem notes, “the great star early droop’d in the western sky.”
Adrienne Rich [or Adrienne Cecile Rich]
Walt Whitman
“When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” [prompt on “lilacs in the dooryard”] &lt;American Literature&gt;
The essay <em>A Room of One’s Own</em> credits this writer with proving that women could make a living through writing, declaring that “All women together ought to let flowers fall upon” her grave. For 10 points each:
Name this Restoration playwright and novelist. A group of soldiers court, threaten, and are threatened by local women in her play The Rover.
Behn turned to writing after a stint in debtor’s prison because she wasn’t paid for her work in this profession for Charles II. George Smiley and Alec Leamas are members of this profession created by John Le Carré.
In Behn’s novel Oroonoko, the title prince is captured by English slavers and brought to this continent, where he starts a rebellion. Candide travels to this continent to search for El Dorado.
Aphra Behn (“bane”)
spy [accept secret agent]
South America [prompt on America] &lt;British Literature&gt;
The title character of this story notes that people have lost faith in priests, but that he is now expected to perform miracles. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which two horses magically appear to the title character, whisking him away to his work and leaving a mysterious groom alone with his servant girl Rosa.
“A Country Doctor” was written by this author. Gregor Samsa wastes away after he is transformed into a giant insect overnight in this man’s novella The Metamorphosis.
Description acceptable. This character from The Metamorphosis delivers food to Gregor and is the only one who will go in his room alone. The story ends with her stretching her legs while on the tram.
“A Country Doctor” [or “Ein Landarzt”]
Franz Kafka
Gregor’s sister [or Grete Samsa] &lt;European Literature&gt;
In a novel by this author, Samad demands to remove the Harvest Festival from the school calendar because he believes it is pagan. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary English author of White Teeth.
The first section of White Teeth has an epigraph from this author’s novel Where Angels Fear to Tread. Smith’s novel On Beauty is based on Howards End, a novel by this author of A Passage to India.
Critic James Wood has described Smith’s writing as a “hysterical” type of this style. John Braine’s novel Room at the Top and other works by the Angry Young Men have been classified as the “kitchen-sink” type of this style.
Zadie Smith
Edward Morgan Forster
realism [accept hysterical realism or kitchen-sink realism] &lt;British Literature&gt;
An author with this ethnicity wrote about Louise learning to perceive nonlinear time from the alien Heptapods in “Story of Your Life.” For 10 points each:
Name this ethnicity shared by an author who recounted “a Girlhood Among Ghosts” in her novel The Woman Warrior.
This is the first kind of animal to be brought to life using origami in Chinese-American author Ken Liu’s short story “The Paper Menagerie.” A boy drives away one of these animals with a burning branch in The Jungle Book.
In an early work of Chinese science fiction, Tamataro aspires to create a hot-air balloon to reach this object. This object is “no drinker of wine” according to a Li Bai poem titled “Drinking Alone by” this object’s light.
Chinese-American (Those authors are Ted Chiang and Maxine Hong Kingston.)
tigers
moon [or yuè or yuèliàng; accept “Drinking Alone by Moonlight”] (The work is Tales of the Moon Colony by Huangjiang Diasou.) &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
This book is the best-known example of adoxography, a genre in which it was preceded by Faustino Perisauli’s <em>On the Triumph of Stupidity</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this encomium whose title character claims descent from Plutus and the nymph Neoteris. It closes with the admonition that “no man is wise at all times.”
Desiderius Erasmus punned on the name of his friend Thomas More for the title of his Moriae Encomium, or In Praise of Folly. Erasmus and More represented a “Christian” version of this Renaissance movement, which emphasized reading classical, man-centered texts.
A far less Christian humanism was promoted by this later thinker’s atheistic “Religion Of Humanity.” The first to use “sociology,” he suggested that civilizations go through fetishistic, polytheistic, and monotheistic substages within the Theocratic stage.
In Praise of Folly [or The Praise of Folly; or Moriae Encomium; or Stultitiae Laus]
Christian humanism
Auguste Comte &lt;Philosophy&gt;
This author wrote “I want to tell you the truth, and already I have told you about the wide rivers” in her essay “Notes from a Native Daughter,” which is about her home of Sacramento. For 10 points each:
Name this American essayist of The White Album and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
This author asked, “What could a city girl like me do but major in human behavior?” in a prose poem titled “Notes of a Native Daughter.” Esperanza Cordero grows up in Chicago in a novel by this author.
This author wrote about his father dying of tuberculosis in “Notes of a Native Son.” His father also inspired the preacher Gabriel Grimes in this author’s novel Go Tell It on the Mountain.
Joan Didion
Sandra Cisneros (The novel is The House on Mango Street.)
James Baldwin [or James Arthur Baldwin] &lt;American Literature&gt;
A member of this movement wrote “Bobeobi (“bo-beh-OH-bee”) pelis guby,” meaning “Bobeobi sang the lips,” to begin a poem classified as a “sound-painting.” For 10 points each:
Name this literary and artistic movement propounded by Velimir Khlebnikov. The author of The Bedbug, Vladimir Mayakovsky, was also a member of this movement.
Khlebnikov’s poem “Bobeobi” is a sound-painting since it assigns colors to letters, much like this author’s poem “Voyelles.” This Symbolist also wrote “The Drunken Boat.”
While Rimbaud assigned colors to vowels, Khlebnikov assigned them to these other sounds. When developing his “alphabet of the intellect,” Khlebnikov related words that share these counterparts of vowels.
Russian Futurism [or Budetlyansvo or Cubo-Futurism]
Arthur Rimbaud (“ram-BO”)
consonants &lt;European Literature&gt;
In his best-known paper, Don Marquis (“MAR-kwiss”) cited the original thought experiment about this person before asking whether fetuses have the right to life, thus giving the “future like ours” account of the wrongness of killing. For 10 points each:
Identify this professional from a thought experiment about abortion. Judith Jarvis Thomson argued that disconnecting yourself from an involuntary blood transfusion with this man would let him die but would not be murder. A description is fine.
A chapter on abortion appears in the Canon of Medicine, which Avicenna wrote in this language. Aquinas often cited commentaries written in this language by Avicenna’s disciple Averroes.
Religious critiques of abortion may hinge on the process by which this thing enters the body. Aristotle’s De anima states that this immortal, immaterial essence of a person animates the body.
a master violinist [accept musician or clear equivalents describing a violin player or musical performer]
Arabic [or Al-‘Arabiyyah; or ʻarabī] (Aquinas hence called Averroes “the Commentator.”)
the soul [or the spirit; or psyches; accept On the Soul or Peri Psyches] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
A character in this novel threatens to murder Leach and Johnson, who stage a mutiny against him. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Humphrey Van Weyden and the ruthless ship captain Larsen.
The Sea-Wolf is by this American author, who wrote about the dog Buck in The Call of the Wild.
Wolf Larsen captains a ship named for this type of person. In a novella, a governess believes that Miss Jessel and Peter Quint are both people of this type.
The Sea-Wolf
Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]
ghosts [or dead people; or spirits or other synonyms] (The novella is The Turn of the Screw.) &lt;American Literature&gt;
In a play in this language, Dulcitius believes that some pots and pans are three beautiful virgins, so he embraces them and becomes covered in soot. For 10 points each:
Name this language used by the nun Hrotsvitha of Gandersheim (“GAHN-durs-hime”). Medieval liturgical drama was written in this language, which was also used to write the Vulgate and most of Carmina Burana.
Hrotsvitha wrote plays in this broad genre. Hrotsvitha wrote in the style of Terence, who, like Plautus, was an ancient Roman playwright of this genre.
Two hundred years after Hrotsvitha, this medieval nun wrote Ordo Virtutum, the earliest surviving morality play. This composer and mystic described twenty-six visions of God in her manuscript Scivias.
Latin [accept Ecclesiastical Latin or Church Latin or Liturgical Latin or Medieval Latin or Vulgar Latin]
comedy
Hildegard von Bingen [or Saint Hildegard; or Hildegardis Bingensis; accept Sibyl of the Rhine] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Vera Dick’s testimony that this group’s last song was “Nearer, My God, to Thee” could have been selective memory of a previous event. For 10 points each:
Name this Wallace Hartley–led group, whom Walter Lord argued played the hymn “Autumn” in his book A Night to Remember. A description is acceptable.
Hartley’s violin and other instruments were auctioned off in 2013 in this city, where the Titanic was built. Samson and Goliath are two massive cranes in this industrial city’s Queen’s Island harbor.
During the 19th century, British shipbuilding boomed in Northern Ireland and this other constituent country, where the RMS Queen Elizabeth was built outside Glasgow.
the band aboard the Titanic [both underlined parts needed; accept synonyms for band like musicians or anything indicating the group performed music; prompt on band or musicians with “Where did they play?”]
Belfast [or Béal Feirste]
Scotland &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
Instructions for how to create one of these things are given in the <em>Sefer Yetzirah</em> (“SEFF-air yet-see-RAH”). For 10 points each:
Name these beings made of animated mud or clay. According to legend, Rabbi Judah Loew ben Bezalel created one of these beings to defend the Jewish ghetto of Prague.
Paracelsus suggested animating one of these beings by incubating human sperm in horse dung. These miniature people were said to serve the alchemist who created them.
Unlike golems or homunculi, this being made of animated dough [emphasize] does not obey his creator. Instead, this character flees the baker and taunts “you can’t catch me” to everyone he meets until he is eaten by a sly fox.
golems
homunculus (“huh-MUN-kyoo-luss”) [or homonculi]
the Gingerbread Man [or the Gingerbread Boy] &lt;Mythology&gt;
Stephen Spender wrote “the dreamer sleeps forever with the dreamed” to conclude a poem titled for one of these events. For 10 points each:
Name this type of event. The speaker laments “he was my North, my South, my East and West” in a W. H. Auden poem titled for the “blues” of one of these events.
“Funeral Blues” begins with this four-word command. This command is followed by commands to “cut off the telephone, / Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone.”
The speaker of “Funeral Blues” also declares “pack up the moon and dismantle” this object. A Shakespeare sonnet begins, “My mistress’ eyes are nothing like” this object.
funeral [accept “Auden’s Funeral” or “Funeral Blues”]
“stop all the clocks” [exact phrase required]
the sun &lt;British Literature&gt;
A poetry collection by this author ends with the image of “a flock of homesick cranes flying night and day back to their mountain nests.” For 10 points each:
Name this Bengali Nobel laureate who wrote the poetry collection Gitanjali.
Prolific Tagore translator Juan Ramón Jiménez (“hee-MEN-ess”) was likely inspired by Tagore to coin a style of poetry described by this adjective. This adjective titles a William S. Burroughs novel partly set in Interzone.
When Tagore brought his manuscript of Gitanjali on a visit to England, he briefly lost it in one of these places. An Ezra Pound poem titled for one of these places describes “faces in a crowd” as “petals on a wet, black bough.”
Rabindranath Tagore [or Robindronath Thakur]
naked [accept naked poetry or Naked Lunch; accept desnuda or poesía desnuda]
the subway [accept synonyms; accept “In a Station of the Metro”; accept the London Tube or London Underground; prompt on train stations or synonyms] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Roland Barthes identified five codes of meaning in a novella by this author in his structural analysis <em>S/Z</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who described the title character’s love for the castrato Zambinella in Sarrasine. Raphael de Valentin is given a magic skin that shrinks as it grants his wishes in this author’s The Wild Ass’s Skin.
Sarrasine and The Wild Ass’s Skin are grouped alongside Eugénie Grandet (“oo-zhay-NEE gron-DAY”) and Le Père Goriot (“luh pair gor-YO”) in this large collection of novels by Balzac. Its title references an epic by Dante.
Barthes discusses a line from Sarrasine to begin this essay, which argues that the author’s intention should not be given special preference when analyzing a text. This essay concludes by stating that “the birth of the reader must be ransomed” by the title event.
Honoré de Balzac
The Human Comedy [or La Comédie humaine]
“The Death of the Author” [or Le morte d’auteur] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Mustapha Mond calls this substance “Christianity without tears” when explaining the values of the World State to John the Savage. For 10 points each:
Name this pleasant hallucinogenic drug. The World State uses this drug to control its population in Brave New World.
Brave New World is a novel by this author. This author described his own experience using the psychedelic drug mescaline in The Doors of Perception.
Slake Moths produce a hallucinogenic drug named for this word followed by “shit” in China Miéville’s (“mee-AY-vul’s”) Perdido Street Station. This word is the primary name of the protagonist of Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman.
soma
Aldous Huxley
dream [accept dreamshit] &lt;British Literature&gt;
Answer the following about literature featuring nonwhite characters, for 10 points each.
A woman named Blue returns to Oakland in Tommy Orange’s novel There, There, which is titled for this author’s own description of Oakland. This author of The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas wrote “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.”
This author wrote a novel whose narrators include the color red, a miniaturist named Black, and the murdered Elegant Effendi.
Lady Murasaki, whose name means “violet,” may have included herself as a love interest of the title character in this Heian (“HAY-on”)-era novel about a “Shining Prince.”
Gertrude Stein
Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk] (The novel is My Name Is Red.)
The Tale of Genji [or Genji monogatari] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
After reading a letter from his older brother, this character dies during a swim in the short story “The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who owns a poetry-covered baseball mitt. This character’s siblings include Phoebe, D.B., and Holden.
Allie Caulfield’s brother Holden spends much of this J. D. Salinger novel wandering around New York City after his expulsion from Pencey Prep.
Another Caulfield named Curtis is briefly mentioned in An Introduction to this other character. In a short story, this husband of Muriel kisses the arch of a young girl’s foot while at the beach.
Allie Caulfield [or Kenneth Caulfield; prompt on Caulfield or Holden Caulfield’s younger brother]
The Catcher in the Rye
Seymour Glass [prompt on Glass] (That story is “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.”) &lt;American Literature&gt;
This character gives her former suitor Eilert Lovberg a pistol to kill himself with, but instead he dies by starting a brawl. For 10 points each:
Name this character who plays a “wild dance” on the piano before shooting herself in the play titled for her.
Hedda Gabler is the title character of a play by this Norwegian author of A Doll’s House.
Ibsen was given a front-row seat when attending a lecture by this younger author, who proceeded to insult Ibsen for writing shallow social drama with an “indefensibly coarse and artificial psychology.” This fellow Norwegian wrote about a man who “wandered about and starved in Christiania” in his novel Hunger.
Hedda Gabler [accept either name]
Henrik Ibsen
Knut Hamsun [or Knut Pedersen] &lt;European Literature&gt;
After accusing this character of stealing a gun, a woman runs toward a helicopter at the end of the novel in which this character appears. For 10 points each:
Name this servant who worries his employers when he uses the bakkie (“back-ee”) without their permission. This character brings those employers to his village during a civil war.
This author of The Conservationist wrote about Bam and Maureen Smales fleeing to their servant’s village in her novel July’s People.
The fictional civil war in July’s People depicts the downfall of apartheid in this home country of Gordimer.
July
Nadine Gordimer
South Africa [or Republic of South Africa] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Syrena Tricksy rises the social ladder in an “Anti-” version of this novel by Eliza Haywood subtitled “Feign’d Innocence Detected.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel that also inspired a parody in which the female heroine tricks Squire Booby into marriage. Both parodies mock the ideals presented in this Samuel Richardson novel, subtitled “Virtue Rewarded.”
This author of Shamela frequently digressed while chronicling the life of a “foundling” in his novel Tom Jones.
Pamela and Shamela both have this surname. A Henry Fielding novel written “in imitation of the manner of Cervantes” imagines Pamela’s brother of this surname, who is mentored by Abraham Adams.
Pamela [or Pamela; or, Virtue Rewarded]
Henry Fielding
Andrews [accept Joseph Andrews] &lt;British Literature&gt;
A Joy Harjo poem titled “She Had Some” of these animals describes how “Some will see [these animals] with their hearts of sleeping volcanoes.” For 10 points each:
Name these animals. A “little” one of these animals “must think it queer” according to a speaker who describes woods as “lovely, dark and deep” and talks about “miles to go before I sleep.”
This author’s journey home on his horse after failing to make money for buying Christmas presents inspired his poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” He wrote “The Road Not Taken.”
This poet wrote “Don’t let that horse / eat that violin” in a poem on Marc Chagall’s (“shuh-GALL’s”) creation of the painting The Horse With Violin In Mouth. This poet also wrote A Coney Island of the Mind.
horses [accept “She Had Some Horses” or “my little horse”]
Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost]
Lawrence Ferlinghetti [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti] &lt;American Literature&gt;
In one poem, a character “said aloud, / For no man else in [this place] to hear” that “we have the harvest moon / Again, and we may not have many more.” For 10 points each:
Name this location home to a character who “mourned Romance, now on the town, / And Art, a vagrant (“VAY-grint”).”
This poem about another resident of Tilbury Town “loved the days of old” but “was born too late” and “coughed, and called it fate, / And kept on drinking.”
This creator of Tilbury Town also described “a gentleman” who “went home and put a bullet through his head” in his poem “Richard Cory.”
Tilbury Town
“Miniver Cheevy”
Edwin Arlington Robinson (The poem in the lead-in is “Mr. Flood’s Party.”) &lt;American Literature&gt;
Copernicus attempts to gain entrance to Hell but is stopped by Ignatius of Loyola in this author’s anti-Jesuit pamphlet <em>Ignatius His Conclave</em>, which also name-drops Kepler, Galileo, and Tycho Brahe. For 10 points each:
Name this poet and cleric, who drew from astronomy for the conceits of his poems “Lecture upon the Shadow” and “The Sun Rising.” A sonnet by him addresses a force “slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men.”
In “The Sun Rising,” Donne tells the sun that the walls of his bedroom form one of these things. In “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” Donne writes that “trepidation of” these things “though greater far, is innocent.”
Donne also wrote a song beginning “Go and catch a falling” one of these objects. A poem by Jane Taylor tells one of these objects to “Twinkle, twinkle.”
John Donne (That sonnet is “Death, be not proud.”)
spheres (Donne refers to the ancient theory that celestial bodies are fixed on the surfaces of concentric spheres.)
stars [accept “Go and catch a falling star” or “Twinkle, twinkle, little star”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
This author wrote “say goodbye to her, to the Alexandria you are losing” in his poem “The God Abandons Antony.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote “hope your road is a long one” in his poem “Ithaka.” He also wrote a poem about some people who “were a kind of solution.”
Cavafy wrote in the modern form of this language. Cavafy drew on authors like Lysias (“LYE-see-us”) and Homer, who wrote in the ancient form of this language.
The Delphic oracle warns this person to “Beware the age of seventy-three” in a Cavafy poem titled for this person’s “Deadline.” This leader reads poetry to a mob in Henryk Sienkiewicz’s (“shen-KYEH-vitch’s”) Quo Vadis, which is set during his reign.
Constantine Peter Cavafy (“kuh-VAH-fee”) (The poem is “Waiting for the Barbarians.”)
Greek [accept Modern Greek; accept ancient Greek; accept Koine Greek]
Nero [or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus] &lt;European Literature&gt;
The speaker of this poem says, “The rain is kind to come / And speak to me in my new home.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the speaker “felt the rain’s cool finger-tips / Brushed tenderly across my lips.” This poem begins, “All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood.”
One of this poet’s speakers claimed “nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands.” Known for his unusual punctuation, this poet used the refrain “sun moon stars rain” in his poem “anyone lived in a pretty how town.”
“Water blooms up to his reflection / like a cut swaying” in this poet’s “Gifts of Rain.” This man, who published a 1999 translation of Beowulf, described “great slime kings” in his poem “Death of a Naturalist.”
“Renascence” (by Edna St. Vincent Millay)
e. e. cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings] (The unnamed poem is “somewhere i have never travelled,gladly beyond.”)
Seamus Heaney (“SHAY-muss HEE-nee”) [or Seamus Justin Heaney] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Answer the following about Eastern European authors who wrote really long sentences, for 10 points each.
Bohumil Hrabal used just a single 128-page sentence for his novel Dancing Lessons for the Advanced in Age, which he wrote in this language. Tomáš and Tereza’s dog Karenin dies of cancer in another novel in this language.
This author wrote a ten-page sentence about the history of the Theresienstadt (“tuh-RAY-zin-shtott”) ghetto in his novel Austerlitz. This author intersperses photographs throughout his novels, which include The Emigrants and The Rings of Saturn.
Polish author Jerzy Andrzejewski (“YEHR-zhih on-dray-YEFF-skee”) used only two sentences, the second of which is four words, in his novel The Gates of this location. John Milton wrote an epic titled this location Lost.
Czech (The second novel is Milan Kundera’s The Unbearable Lightness of Being.)
W. G. Sebald
paradise [accept The Gates of Paradise or Paradise Lost] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Name some authors who were inspired by the Brooklyn Bridge, for 10 points each.
This author described the structure as “sleepless as the river under thee” in the “Proem” that opens his long poem The Bridge.
The speaker claims to be “the perfect man, the Buddha of This World” in this author’s unpublished “Brooklyn Bridge Blues.” This Beat author wrote about Sal Paradise in his novel On The Road.
This poet called the Brooklyn Bridge “Climactic ornament, a double rainbow” in the poem “Granite and Steel.” The speaker says, “I, too, dislike it” in this author’s poem “Poetry.”
Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane]
Jack Kerouac [or Jean-Louis Kérouac]
Marianne Moore [or Marianne Craig Moore] &lt;American Literature&gt;
In a play by this author, a girl is killed by the little men she carves out of an apple after she feeds some of them to her father. For 10 points each:
Name this author who described child murders that match the plots of Katurian’s fairy tales in The Pillowman. This Irish playwright also wrote a trilogy set in the Aran (“AR-un”) Islands.
Martin McDonagh wrote the screenplay to a dark comedy in which two members of this profession hide out in Bruges (“broozh”). In a play, two members of this profession argue about the phrases “light the kettle” and “put on the kettle.”
The hitmen Gus and Ben receive instructions from the title device in this author’s play The Dumb Waiter. This British playwright also wrote The Birthday Party.
Martin McDonagh (“muck-DON-uh”)
hitmen [or paid assassins or hired killers; accept any answer indicating a person who kills people for money]
Harold Pinter &lt;British Literature&gt;
This novel begins and ends with a prayer to the sunrise. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Leslie Marmon Silko in which the mixed-race Tayo battles PTSD from World War II and tries to reconnect with his indigenous ancestry.
In Ceremony, Tayo returns home to one of these places after World War II. Louise Erdrich’s novel Love Medicine is set on one of these places home to the Ojibwe (“oh-JIB-way”) tribe.
In a poem from Ceremony, a grandmother who is one of these animals tells the Sun how to outsmart a gambler. Luis and Valentín are cellmates in a Manuel Puig (“pweeg”) novel whose title mentions this animal.
Ceremony
Native American reservations
spiders [accept araña; accept Spider Woman; accept Kiss of the Spider Woman] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Answer the following about works of hybrid literature, in which other media are incorporated within the text. For 10 points each:
Dance and music accompany Ntozake Shange’s (“EN-toh-zah-kee SHON-gay’s”) monologue “no more love poems #2,” performed by a character named for this color. This color titles a novel whose protagonist writes letters to God and falls in love with Shug Avery.
Letters and photographs are used throughout Theresa Cha’s “auto-ethnographic” novel Dictee, which is divided into nine parts based on this group. Sor Juana (“WAH-nah”) is often known as the “tenth” one of these Greek goddesses of the arts.
In Claudia Rankine’s (“RANK-in’s”) book Citizen, a photograph depicting “smiling blond goodness” concludes a chapter on this activity. In another novel, Charles Tavis works at an academy for this activity founded by Hal’s father James.
purple [accept the Lady in Purple or The Color Purple]
the Muses [accept “The Tenth Muse”]
tennis [prompt on sports] (The novel is Infinite Jest.) &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
In this chapter, a group of boys watch a naked blonde woman dance in front of them before tossing her in the air twice. For 10 points each:
Name this chapter in which a group of black boys fight each other while blindfolded and later attempt to collect coins from an electrified rug. You may also give the novel and chapter number.
This author used his separately-published story “Battle Royal” as the first chapter of his novel Invisible Man.
Ellison calls his “Battle Royal” scene “a ritual in preservation of caste lines” in this critical essay collection, which discusses how he began writing Invisible Man.
“Battle Royal” [accept the first chapter of Invisible Man or the opening chapter of Invisible Man; do not accept answers that use “The Invisible Man” in place of “Invisible Man”]
Ralph Ellison [or Ralph Waldo Ellison]
Shadow and Act &lt;American Literature&gt;
Captain van Toch meets these beings off the coast of Sumatra, where they give him pearls in exchange for harpoons to kill sharks. For 10 points each:
Name these beings. They are exported all over the world to become slaves for humanity but ultimately declare war when humans are unwilling to grant them rights.
The newts declare war on humanity in The War with the Newts, a novel by this Czech science fiction writer. He also wrote the play R.U.R.
Karel Čapek’s R.U.R. introduced the term for these machines. In the works of Isaac Asimov, these machines often have “positronic brains.”
newts [or salamanders]
Karel Čapek (“CHAH-peck”)
robots [accept Rossum’s Universal Robots; do not accept or prompt on synonyms such as “androids”] &lt;European Literature&gt;
Andrew Marvell wrote that this man “bowed his comely head / Down, as upon a bed” in a section of an ode about this man’s beheading. For 10 points each:
Name this king of England who was supported by Sir John Suckling, Thomas Carew (“carry”), and other Cavalier poets during the English Civil War.
This Cavalier wrote “This day is yours, Great CHARLES!” in a poem celebrating Charles’s victory at Leicester (“LESS-ter”). He included the poem “Corinna’s Going A-Maying” in his collection Hesperides.
This other supporter of Charles was incarcerated in Gatehouse Prison after the English Civil War, leading him to pen the lines, “Stone Walls do not a Prison make / Nor Iron bars a Cage” in his poem “To Althea, from Prison.”
Charles I [prompt on Charles]
Robert Herrick
Richard Lovelace &lt;British Literature&gt;
This substance is compared to a woman who “will come / From the midst of a vast clamour / With a mist of stars about her” in Richard Aldington’s poem “The Lover.” For 10 points each:
Name this substance. The speaker sees a man “flound’ring like a man in fire or lime” after this substance foments an “ecstasy of fumbling” in the poem “Dulce et Decorum Est.”
This author described the “froth-corrupted lungs” of a man killed by poison gas in his poem “Dulce et Decorum Est,” which, like “Anthem for Doomed Youth,” is one of the many poems he wrote about World War I.
This poet wrote “After two thousand years of mass / We’ve got as far as poison-gas” in “Christmas, 1924.” This author described English military demonstrations just before World War I in his poem “Channel Firing.”
poison gas [accept phosgene gas or chlorine gas]
Wilfred Owen
Thomas Hardy &lt;British Literature&gt;
This place names a poetic form developed by Terrance Hayes where each line ends with a word from another poem in successive order. For 10 points each:
Name this location. In a Gwendolyn Brooks poem, it is occupied by seven pool players who “sing sin” and “thin gin.”
A different Gwendolyn Brooks poem titled for one of these people ends, “I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you / All.” In another poem, one of these people says to another character, “Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.”
Brooks set her collection Annie Allen in this Midwestern city, which is called “Hog Butcher for the World” in a poem by Carl Sandburg.
the Golden Shovel
mothers (The poem is “Mother to Son” by Langston Hughes.)
Chicago &lt;American Literature&gt;
In a novel whose English title mentions this location, Noboru uses a peephole to spy on his mother’s first night of sex with her lover Ryuji. For 10 points each:
Name this location that titles a series of novels about a lawyer’s encounters with the reincarnations of a friend identified by a pattern of three moles.
The Sea of Fertility was written by this Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, who committed seppuku on television after a failed coup.
Kochan tries to hide his homosexuality in a Mishima novel titled for the Confessions of one of these objects. These objects are sometimes tilted to change the amount of light cast upon them in Noh theater.
sea [accept The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea or The Sea of Fertility; accept umi]
Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order]
masks [accept Confessions of a Mask] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
In a story by this author, a brandy-drinking “philosopher” dies of fright after a witch summons the title demon gnome. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Viy” (“vee”). He described a man who believes he is the King of Spain in a story titled “Diary of a Madman.”
After leaving his native Ukraine, Gogol moved to this former capital of Russia, where he set stories such as “Nevsky Prospect” and “The Overcoat.”
After asking for help to recover his overcoat, Akaky Akakievich is rudely dismissed by a nameless character identified only by this adjective. Towards the story’s end, that character identified by this adjective has his overcoat stolen by Akaky’s ghost.
Nikolai Gogol
St. Petersburg [or Sankt-Peterburg; accept Leningrad]
prominent [accept rough synonyms such as important or significant; accept prominent personage; accept znachitel’ny or znachitel’noye litso] &lt;European Literature&gt;
This author argued that “the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete” in the TED talk “The Danger of a Single Story.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote a novel in which Ifemelu reunites with Obinze (“oh-BIN-zay”) after her years living in America and running the blog “Raceteenth.”
Adichie is from this country, where Ifemelu and Obinze originally fell in love as classmates at a school in Lagos (“LAY-goss”).
Ugwu, Odenigbo, and Olanna survive the Biafran (“by-AFF-run”) War in a novel by Adichie titled for this color. In a Charlotte Perkins Gilman story, a narrator treated with the “rest cure” hallucinates a woman trapped in wallpaper of this color.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (“uh-DEE-chay”) (That novel is Americanah.)
Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]
yellow [accept Half of a Yellow Sun or “The Yellow Wallpaper”] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Workers in this occupation were often enlisted by cities to freely provide their services both to the rich and to the poor, as is shown in an archived contract between Giovanni de Ventura and the city of Pavia. For 10 points each:
Name this profession whose members often doubled as population reckoners. Charles de L’Orme first designed their standard garb, which included a long coat drenched in animal fat and a mask full of fine-smelling substances.
Even though the spooky combo of bird mask and trenchcoat didn’t enter style until 1619, it still became associated with this massive 14th-century pandemic that killed at least 50 million people.
Peter Damian inspired this religious treatment for the plague, which was performed by the followers of Konrad Schmid. Clement VI condemned this form of penitence, whose travelling performers often sang Geisserlieder as they did it.
doctors [or physicians; or surgeons; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, plague doctors, or doctors working during the Black Plague or Black Death]
the Black Death [or the Great Plague; or the Black Plague; or the Bubonic Plague; accept the Great Pestilence; prompt on plague]
self-flagellation [or whipping oneself; or flogging oneself; or beating oneself; prompt on acceptable verbs without “self” by asking “who did they perform that action on?”; prompt on hurting oneself; prompt on masochism; prompt on bloodletting; prompt on mortification of the flesh] &lt;European History&gt;
In a novel in this language, Paul and Myriam hire Louise as a nanny, but she murders both of their children. For 10 points each:
Name this language used by the Moroccan-born author Leïla Slimani to write her novel The Perfect Nanny. It is also used by Tahar ben Jelloun and Albert Camus (“ka-MOO”).
Tahar ben Jelloun’s novel This Blinding Absence of Light is primarily set at one of these locations. In The Stranger, Meursault (“mur-SO”) yells at a chaplain and brings him to tears at one of these locations.
Meursault is in prison because he shot this unnamed character. This person is given the name Musa in Kamel Daoud’s novel The Meursault Investigation, which is written from the perspective of his brother.
French [or Français]
prison [or synonyms such as jail or prison cell]
the Arab [or l’arabe] &lt;European Literature&gt;
One of these two characters says, “I’m no god. I have no power over life and death, do I?” after the other screams, “You can’t do this!” For 10 points each:
Name these two characters. This married couple insults Nick and Honey in a game called “Get the Guests” after inviting them over.
Martha screams, “You cannot do that! I will not let you do that!” after George claims that he received a telegram about this person’s death in a car accident.
Martha answers the title question with, “I am, George. I am,” at the end of this Edward Albee play about their dysfunctional marriage.
George AND Martha [accept names in either order; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
their fictional son [or equivalents like their imaginary son; prompt on their child]
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;American Literature&gt;
Benjamin Saxton argued that this author broke down the “omnipotent and omnipresent” God of Roland Barthes (“ro-LAWN BART”) into one that “leaves space for the creativity and agency of his subjects.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. In his “Gospel According to” this author, Ralph C. Wood argued that figures outside “formal religion” such as Eru Ilúvatar represent a deep Christian allegory in this author’s work.
Wood recognized the symbolism of this figure as a “Jesus Christ” of Middle Earth. This legendary Istari wizard rescues the Hobbits from Mount Doom with giant eagles after leading armies against Sauron at the Black Gate.
Tolkien adapted Judeo-Christian myths such as the Great Flood into events like the Fall of Númenor in this seminal collection of Middle Earth mythology.
J. R. R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Ruel Tolkien; accept The Gospel According to Tolkien]
Gandalf [or Mithrandir; or Tharkûn; or Olórin]
The Silmarillion &lt;British Literature&gt;
This author attributed a simple prose sermon on the seven deadly sins to a poor Parson who was “rich in holy thought and work.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. In a section known as his “Retractions,” this author revokes his “enditings of worldly vanities” and other works “that tend towards sin,” including The Nineteen Ladies and his Troilus and Criseyde.
Among Chaucer’s retractions are parts of this collection, which he framed as a series of pilgrims travelling to the title cathedral to see the remains of the “hooly blisful martir” Saint Thomas Becket.
On the other hand, Chaucer specifically [emphasize] did not retract his translation of Boethius (“bo-EE-thee-us”) or any of his works in this genre, such as “The Second Nun’s Tale.” Jacobus de Voragine (“YA-ko-boos day vo-RAH-jee-nay”) compiled a “golden” anthology of works in this genre.
Geoffrey Chaucer
The Canterbury Tales [or The Tales of Canterbury]
hagiography [or saints’ lives or saints’ legends; prompt on lives or legends or biography by asking “what type of person are they about?”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
In a novel whose title ends with this word, Sasha Jensen defines a room as “a place where you hide from the wolves” during her trip to Paris. For 10 points each:
Name this period of time. It titles a novel in which Saleem, Shiva, and others who were born during the first moment of Indian independence possess magic powers.
This Indian author of Midnight’s Children wrote The Satanic Verses, which led to a fatwa being issued against him.
This author wrote about Sasha Jensen in Good Morning, Midnight. Antoinette Cosway becomes “the madwoman in the attic” in this author’s postcolonial prequel to Charlotte Brontë’s Jane Eyre (“air”).
midnight [accept Midnight’s Children; do not accept or prompt on “night”]
Salman Rushdie (“RUSH-dee”) [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]
Jean Rhys (“jeen reese”) [or Ella Gwendolyn Rees Williams] (That novel is Wide Sargasso Sea.) &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
A man in this play says, “I saw I’d always known that was the only possible way to… free her from the misery of loving me” after he admits that he killed his wife. For 10 points each:
Name this play that follows the alcoholics of Harry Hope’s saloon as they wait for Theodore Hickman.
In The Iceman Cometh, Hugo repeatedly references this place, which is “cool beneath thy willow trees.” Charlie Wales is unable to win custody of his daughter Honoria in a story titled for this place.
This playwright of The Iceman Cometh wrote about the Tyrone family in his play Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
The Iceman Cometh
Babylon [accept “Babylon Revisited”]
Eugene O’Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O’Neill] &lt;American Literature&gt;
Emilia Pardo Bazán introduced this literary movement to Spain in her essay <em>La cuestión palpitante</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this offshoot of realism that sought to portray people with scientific objectivity. Authors in this movement include Alphonse Daudet (“doh-DAY”), the Goncourt (“gon-KOOR”) brothers, and the author of Thérèse Raquin (“tay-REZZ ra-CAN”).
Pardo Bazán’s essay emphasizes this author of Thérèse Raquin as the foremost of the naturalists. This author’s 20-volume cycle about the Rougon-Macquart (“roo-GON-mah-CAR”) family includes his novels Germinal (“zhair-mee-NALL”) and Nana.
When discussing predecessors of literary naturalism in Spain, Pardo Bazán identifies a group of Spanish writers who were heavily influenced by this English-language author of Ivanhoe.
naturalism [or naturalisme]
Émile Zola
Sir Walter Scott &lt;European Literature&gt;
This author used a fragmentary poem by Stesichorus (“steh-SICK-uh-russ”) about the monster Geryon (“jerry-on”) as the basis for her verse novel <em>Autobiography of Red</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this classicist who used brackets and whitespace to represent missing pieces of papyrus in her translation If Not, Winter.
If Not, Winter is a translation of the fragments of this ancient Greek poet from Lesbos.
Although most translations refer to a throne, Anne Carson’s translation of this poem addresses a goddess “of the spangled mind.” This is the only poem by Sappho to exist largely intact.
Anne Carson
Sappho
“Ode to Aphrodite” [or Sappho fragment 1; or “Hymn to Aphrodite”; do not accept or prompt on “Homeric Hymn to Aphrodite”] &lt;World/Other Literature&gt;
Livy’s account of the myth of Virginia in his <em>History of Rome</em> inspired this author’s play <em>Emilia Galotti</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this German author who retold the “parable of the three rings” in his play Nathan the Wise.
The title character of Lessing’s Nathan the Wise, who was inspired by Moses Mendelssohn, is of this ethnicity. Christopher Marlowe wrote a play about a Maltese person of this ethnicity named Barabas.
Lessing’s Miss Sara Simpson is considered to be an early example of a form of tragedy described by this adjective. This adjective partially titles a “comedy-ballet” about Monsieur Jourdain (“zhoor-DAN”), who hires “masters” in philosophy, music, dancing, and fencing to become a gentleman.
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing
Jewish [accept The Jew of Malta; prompt on Hebrew]
bourgeois (“boorzh-WAH”) [or bourgeois tragedy; accept The Bourgeois Gentleman or Le Bourgeois gentilhomme] &lt;AR, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about the Renaissance polymath Athanasius Kircher (“KEER-kur”), for 10 points each.
Kircher claimed to have deciphered this sacred Egyptian writing system, which was more complicated than Demotic script. His translations were wrong, though, so we had to wait until the Rosetta Stone was found.
Kircher’s treatise on geology, Mundus Subterraneus, includes several drawings of this island off the coast of Sicily. This volcanic island names a type of intermittent, brilliant red eruption of molten lava.
Kircher assembled a famous example of these eclectic collections, which contained small artworks and ethnographic items from all around the world. Another of these collections was assembled by the Danish physician Ole Worm (“OH-luh wurm”).
hieroglyphs [or hieroglyphics]
Stromboli [accept Strombolian eruption]
cabinet of curiosities [accept wonder rooms or Kunstkammer or Wunderkammer; prompt on rooms; do not accept or prompt on “cabinets”] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
This author called his lover and collaborator Margarete Steffin his “little teacher” in a group of poems written after her 1941 death. For 10 points each:
Name this author and husband of actress Helene Weigel (“hay-LAY-nuh VYE-gul”) whose poem “The Solution” satirically asks why his government didn’t choose to “dissolve the people and elect another” after facing opposition.
A poem by Brecht ends with a writer pleading “Burn me!” after learning that this party [emphasize] did not burn his books. Brecht wrote his most celebrated plays while living in exile during this political party’s rule.
This author’s book Peeling the Onion revealed his role in the Waffen-SS. This author published the novel Crabwalk shortly after winning the 1999 Nobel.
Bertolt Brecht
Nazi Party [or National Socialist German Workers’ Party; or NSDAP]
Günter Grass &lt;NC, Misc Lit&gt;
The speaker of a sonnet imagines fondly asking “Doth God exact day-labour” before describing this thing “denied.” For 10 points each:
Name this thing that represents the speaker’s eyesight in the sonnet “On His Blindness,” which opens, “When I consider how [this thing] is spent.”
This author of “On His Blindness” wrote, “Long is the way and hard, that out of Hell leads up to the light” in his epic poem Paradise Lost.
Book I of Paradise Lost describes the flames of hell giving off “no light but rather” this two-word phrase. William Styron’s struggle with depression is recounted in a Vanity Fair “Memoir of Madness” titled for this phrase.
light [or “my light”]
John Milton
“darkness visible” &lt;NC, Poetry&gt;
The protagonist realizes that he has transformed into one of this author’s characters upon waking up in an entry from the 2014 collection <em>Men Without Women</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author. He titles a 2002 novel whose characters include a 15-year-old runaway, whose alter-ego is “The Boy Named Crow,” and Satoru Nakata, who can communicate with cats.
Haruki Murakami, the author of those works, also wrote a story titled for this character in which a nurse tells the disabled Habara a story after each of their sexual encounters, paralleling this narrator of Arabian Nights.
A Faulkner story about Abner Snopes shares this title with a Murakami story about a man who reconciles with his former lover, whose new boyfriend enjoys the destructive title activity. Both stories inspired a similarly-titled 2018 adaptation by Lee Chang-Dong.
Franz Kafka [accept Kafka On the Shore or Umibe no Kafuka] (The story is “Samsa in Love.”)
Scheherazade (“shuh-HAIR-uh-zodd”) [or Shahrazad; or Sheerazādo]
“Barn Burning” [or “Naya wo Yaku”; do not accept or prompt on “Burning”] &lt;RK, Short Fiction&gt;
This novel begins with the protagonist’s mother telling her “You must not tell anyone what I am about to tell you.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel. In its frequently-excerped first chapter, the protagonist’s mother describes how her aunt committed suicide after being shunned by her village for giving birth in wedlock.
That chapter, titled “No-Name Woman,” ends by describing one of these figures. An unnamed governess encounters one of these figures shortly before Miles dies in her arms at the end of a Henry James novella.
The Woman Warrior was written by Maxine Hong Kingston, an author of this ethnicity. Women of this ethnicity are followed in the vignettes of the novel The Joy Luck Club.
The Woman Warrior
ghosts (That work is The Turn of the Screw.)
Chinese-American [prompt on Chinese or American; prompt on Asian-American; prompt on Han Chinese] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
In a 2012 novel, the retired judge Yun Ling remembers events from this war while helping cultivate the title place, which is named Yugiri. For 10 points each:
Name this war. Memories of it are recalled in Tan Twan Eng’s aforementioned novel The Garden of Evening Mists as well as Richard Flanagan’s novel Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Yun Ling from The Garden of Evening Mists was a prisoner of this country during World War II. The title of Flanagan’s novel references a collection by this country’s poet Bashō.
The Garden of Evening Mists was shortlisted for this literary prize in 2012. In 2014, Narrow Road to the Deep North won this prize, which went to Irish author Anna Burns’ novel Milkman in 2018.
World War II [or WW2]
Japan [or Nihon-koku or Nippon-koku]
Man Booker Prize [or Booker Prize for Fiction] &lt;WA, Long Fiction&gt;
In an oft-excerpted parable from this story, a dying emperor sends a message to you, “his miserable subject,” only for the messenger to take an eternity to reach you. For 10 points each:
Name this Franz Kafka story whose elderly narrator compares excessive consideration of leadership to a rising river that “overflows its banks” and emphasizes the “piecemeal construction” of the title structure.
In two essays, this Argentine analyzed Qin Shi Huang’s (“cheen shurr hwong’s”) decision to build the Great Wall and identified Lord Dunsany (“dun-SAY-nee”) and Robert Browning as among Kafka’s “Precursors.” This author wrote the stories in Ficciones (“feeks-YO-nays”).
Scared of its ability to scale the Great Wall, Emperor Yuan destroys the title invention in this author’s “The Flying Machine.” Eckels panics while on a “Time Safari” hunting dinosaurs in his story “A Sound of Thunder.”
“The Great Wall of China” [or “Beim Bau der Chinesischen Mauer”]
Jorge Luis Borges (“BOR-hays”)
Ray Bradbury &lt;RK, Short Fiction&gt;
While recovering from blindness, Guido (“GWEE-doh”) von List claimed to have had a vision of 18 “secret” examples of these letters that he believed were used by ancient Aryan priest-kings. For 10 points each:
Name these letters used by Vikings and other early Germanic peoples, some of whom also believed that they could be used to cast spells.
In the Poetic Edda, this god appears under his name of Ríg (“reeg”) and teaches runes to his son Jarl (“yarl”). This Norse god has golden hair, golden teeth, a golden horse, and a golden horn.
The study of runic magic was revived in the 20th century by an occultist organization named for this place that advocated Ariosophy and, unsurprisingly, was full of Nazi sympathizers. This mythical land of the far north is described in Latin and Greek literature.
runes [or runic letters; or runic alphabet; or futhark]
Heimdall
Thule [accept Thule Society or Thule-Gesellschaft] &lt;WA, Myths/Legends&gt;
The elderly painter Lorenzo refuses to sell or exhibit his self-portrait despite his family’s descent into poverty in a play from this country whose title parodies <em>A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country. A novelist and ophthalmologist called this country a “lost Eden” in a poem that he wrote while awaiting his execution titled “My Last Farewell.”
That author, José Rizal, reacted to the abuse by Spanish priests of this religion in novels like Noli Me Tángere (“no-lee may TAHN-gay-ray”). Two Portuguese missionaries of this religion travel to Japan in Shūsaku Endō’s Silence.
Nick Joaquin, the author of A Portrait of the Artist as Filipino, contributed to this style with stories like “May Day Eve.” Alejo Carpentier’s (“ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR’s”) preface to The Kingdom of This World coined the term for this style, which was used for a novel set at the hacienda Las Tres Marías.
Philippines [or Republic of the Philippines; or Republika ng Pilipinas]
Catholicism [or Catholic Church; prompt on Christianity]
magical realism [or magic realism; or marvelous realism; or realismo mágico; or lo real maravilloso] (The unnamed novel is Isabel Allende’s The House of the Spirits.) &lt;JM, Misc Lit&gt;
Beatrice is slowly turned venomous by her scientist father in one of this author’s stories. For 10 points each:
Name this author who collected “Rappaccini’s Daughter” and “Young Goodman Brown” in Mosses from an Old Manse.
Early on, Young Goodman Brown meets an elderly man holding this creepy, snake-like object. After finding Faith’s pink ribbon, Goodman Brown uses this object to run extremely fast to the story’s concluding Satanic ritual.
This author called “Young Goodman Brown” as “deep as Dante” and not-so-subtly described how Hawthorne “dropped germinous seeds into [his] soul” in his review of Mosses from an Old Manse titled “Hawthorne and his Mosses.” He wrote The Piazza Tales.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
staff [or walking stick or cane]
Herman Melville &lt;AR, Short Fiction&gt;
The female protagonist of a play based on this character becomes a general of Zanzibar after her breasts float away like balloons. For 10 points each:
Name this man who titles that play by Guillaume Apollinaire, which is credited with coining the term “surrealism.” He narrates “The Fire Sermon,” a section of T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land.”
Jean Anouilh (“zhawn ah-NOO-ee”) removed Tiresias from his 1944 adaptation of this Greek play paralleling Vichy (“VEE-shee”) France. In this Sophocles play, Tiresias predicts Creon’s son Haemon will die after the title heroine is punished for burying her brother.
Antonin Artaud (“ar-TOH”) played Tiresias in this other author’s version of Antigone. Tiresias is nicknamed “Zizi” by Jocasta in this author’s rendition of the Oedipus myth, titled The Infernal Machine.
Tiresias [accept The Breasts of Tiresias or Les mamelles de Tirésias]
Antigone
Jean Cocteau &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
The “Dedication” of this poetry collection is made out to the author’s friend Théophile Gautier (“tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY”), whom it calls a “magician of letters.” For 10 points each:
Name this poetry collection whose entry “The Litanies of Satan” repeatedly implores the title figure to “take pity on my long misery!”
This decadent 19th-century French poet wrote The Flowers of Evil.
A disturbing poem from The Flowers of Evil that sexualizes one of these objects describes watching it “blossom like a flower” in the summer while “black battalions” of creatures emerge from it. The speaker wishes to “sleep in oblivion like a shark” in a Baudelaire sonnet titled for a “joyous” one of these.
The Flowers of Evil [or Les fleurs du mal]
Charles Baudelaire
corpses [or cadavers or dead bodies or carcasses or charognes or morts; accept dead people; accept “A Carcass” or “Une charogne” or “The Joyous Corpse” or “Le mort joyeux”; prompt on bodies] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
Quoting from “Stairway to Heaven,” this novel’s epigraph says “There’s a feeling I get when I look to the West….” For 10 points each:
Name this debut novel by Bret Easton Ellis. It follows Clay, who comes home to Los Angeles from his first year of college on the East Coast, then goes on a bunch of adventures with his drug dealer.
Ellis grouped Less than Zero with LA novels in this style, which also denotes classic Hollywood crime drama films like The Big Sleep. This term comes from the French word for “black.”
This other dark novel by Ellis was adapted into a film by Mary Harron and is narrated by the serial killer Patrick Bateman, who works as a Wall Street executive by day and murders people in his apartment by night.
Less Than Zero
noir [or film noir]
American Psycho &lt;WA, Long Fiction&gt;
This author’s diary, kept over a period of two years, begins by describing a mansion in autumn, during which the air is filled with the “murmuring sound of waters” and “never-ceasing recitation of sutras.” For 10 points each:
Identify this pseudonymous medieval author who is named in reference to a shade of violet purple.
Murasaki’s magnum opus is this massive tome, often considered to be the world’s first novel, which follows the title prince’s affairs with many women at the Heian (“hay-on”)-era court in Japan.
Murasaki’s diary documents her fierce rivalry with fellow poet Sei Shōnagon, who is best-known for this zuihitsu (“zoo-ee-heet-soo”) book of fragmentary essays and anecdotes about Heian court life.
Lady Murasaki [or Murasaki Shikibu]
Tale of Genji [or Genji monogatari]
The Pillow Book [or Makura no Sōshi] &lt;WA, Misc Lit&gt;
Poetry in this language often features alternating “masculine” and “feminine” rhyme styles that are particularly difficult to translate. For 10 points each:
Name this language whose scholars coined the term bylina (“bill-EE-nuh”) to refer to its oldest poems. In a narrative poem in this language, a statue comes to life and rides through the streets after a flood.
This two-word term denotes a period of Symbolist-influenced Russian poetry in the late 19th and early 20th century. Exemplars of this period like Alexander Blok and Anna Akhmatova often met at the Stray Dog Cafe.
The Silver Age was preceded by the Golden Age, which is also called the “Age of” this great Russian poet. He used masculine and feminine rhymes in his verse novel Eugene Onegin.
Russian [or russki]
Silver Age [accept Serebryanyi vek]
Alexander Pushkin &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
In a story set in this group of islands, the missionary MacPhail kills himself after being seduced by the prostitute Sadie Thompson during a lengthy quarantine. For 10 points each:
Name this setting of W. Somerset Maugham’s (“mawm’s”) story “Rain.” Robert Louis Stevenson lived his final years in this group of islands, home to his tombstone engraved with his poem “Requiem.”
Maugham also wrote stories about a man of this profession named Ashenden. Maugham inspired many of the stories and novels about a man of this profession written at a British author’s estate in Jamaica.
Maugham evoked colonial Malaysia in stories like “Footprints in the Jungle,” likely inspiring this British author to describe his time as a police officer in Burma in his essay “Shooting an Elephant.”
Samoan Islands [or Motu o Sāmoa; accept Western Samoa or American Samoa; prompt on Polynesia]
spy [or secret agent; or secret intelligence; accept Ashenden: Or the British Agent; do not accept or prompt on “detective”] (That author is Ian Fleming.)
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] &lt;JM, Short Fiction&gt;
The protagonist of this story describes himself as a dreamer, which he defines as “not a human being, but a creature of an intermediate sort.” For 10 points each:
Name this Russian story narrated by a lonely man who wanders the streets of St. Petersburg and develops an affection for Nastenka before she reunites with her lover.
“White Nights” is often compared to this novella, whose reclusive unnamed narrator rails against Western philosophy to the prostitute Liza and introduces himself by stating “I am a sick man…. I am a spiteful man.”
“White Nights” and Notes From Underground were written by this author, who is best remembered for writing about Raskolnikov’s murder of a pawnbroker in Crime and Punishment.
“White Nights” [or “Belye nochi”]
Notes From Underground [or Notes from the Underground; or Letters from the Underworld; or Zapíski iz podpól’ya]
Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky] &lt;ML, Short Fiction&gt;
An eight-line poem that analogizes truth to “Lightning… eased / With explanation kind” commands to “Tell all the truth” in this manner. For 10 points each:
Give this word. Another poem uses this word as a noun to refer to a light that gives a “Heavenly Hurt” and forces the landscape to listen and the shadows to hold their breath.
The poem “There’s a certain Slant of light” ends by reflecting on how, “When it goes, ’tis like the Distance / On the look of” this figure. In another poem, this figure “knew no haste” as “the Horses’ Heads / Were toward Eternity.”
Emily Dickinson, the author of those poems, was fond of the “slant” form of this device, as seen in her lines “The Beggar and his Queen / Propitiate this Democrat / A Summer’s Afternoon” with “Queen” and “Afternoon.”
slant [accept “Tell all the truth but tell it slant” or “There’s a certain Slant of light”]
Death [or “Because I could not stop for Death”]
rhyme [accept slant rhyme] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
Sun Wukong meets this place’s Ten Yama Kings while traveling to its capital of Youdu (“yoh-doo”). For 10 points each:
Name this place that is governed by Yama in many other Chinese tales influenced by Indian traditions.
Sun Wukong journeys to the underworld in this classic Chinese novel, in which he accompanies Xuanzang (“shwen-dzong”) on the title trip to India.
Nao is reincarnated as various farm animals after being sent to the underworld in this contemporary author’s novel Life and Death are Wearing Me Out. Douguan (“doh-gwen”) fights the Japanese occupation of Shandong in another of this author’s novels.
Chinese underworld [or Chinese afterlife or Chinese hell or Diyu; prompt on south]
Journey to the West [or Xī Yóu Jì; prompt on Monkey]
Mo Yan [or Guan Moye] (The latter novel is Red Sorghum.) &lt;WA, Long Fiction&gt;
After his death, a gay member of this profession named Parsifal is investigated by his assistant and lover Sabine in a 1997 novel by Ann Patchett. For 10 points each:
Name this profession that Quentin Coldwater takes up in a trilogy by Lev Grossman. Two Englishman become “practical” members of this profession during the Napoleonic Wars in the novel Jonathan Strange &amp; Mr. Norrell.
Jonathan Strange &amp; Mr. Norrell was written by an author with this surname and first name Susanna. Another author with this surname wrote the screenplay to Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey.
This author depicted a feud between the stage magicians Robert Angier and Alfred Borden in his novel The Prestige. A city moves through a desolate land on train tracks in his novel The Inverted World.
magician [or The Magician’s Assistant; or The Magicians; do not accept or prompt on “wizard”]
Clarke [accept Susanna Clarke or Arthur C. Clarke]
Christopher Priest &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
Answer the following about poetry written in the Tower of London, for 10 points each.
During his first stint in the Tower, Walter Raleigh wrote “The Ocean’s Love to Cynthia,” who represented this person. This queen is allegorized as Gloriana in a poem that Raleigh sponsored, Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.
An author with this first name wrote a poem beginning “O death! rock me asleep” while awaiting execution in the Tower. A later poet with this first name wrote a poem addressing the “ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain.”
While in the Tower of London, Charles, Duke of Orléans, is credited with writing the first poem celebrating this day. Some birds meet on this day in Geoffrey Chaucer’s The Parlement of Foules (“fowls”), which helped establish its modern connotation.
Queen Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]
Anne [accept Anne Boleyn; or Anne Bradstreet]
Valentine’s Day [or Saint Valentine’s Day] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
Complete some famous quotes spoken by the “Mother Goose of Montparnasse,” Gertrude Stein. For 10 points each:
Stein wrote “[This] is a [this] is a [this] is a [this]” in her poem “Sacred Emily.” Robert Burns compared his “Luve” to a “red, red” one of these flowers.
A garage owner allegedly inspired Stein to coin a phrase telling post-World War I Americans “You are all” this sort of group, a quote that Ernest Hemingway borrowed for the epigraph of The Sun Also Rises.
Upon returning to her home of Oakland, Stein remarked of its development that “There is no” this two-word phrase. Cheyenne and Arapaho author Tommy Orange borrowed this phrase for the title of a celebrated 2018 novel about a group of troubled Native Americans in Oakland.
roses [prompt on flowers]
lost generation [accept “You are all a lost generation”; prompt on lost]
“there there” [or “There is no there there.”; or There There] &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
After being cast as this play’s protagonist, Alan Ayckbourn asked “Where does he come from? Where is he going to?”, prompting the author to reply “Mind your own fucking business.” For 10 points each:
Name this play set in a seaside boarding house that centers on the pianist Stanley Webber, who is taken away by Goldberg and McCann at the play’s end.
The Birthday Party was written by this British playwright, who depicted the bickering hitmen Ben and Gus in The Dumb Waiter.
Irving Wardle’s review of The Birthday Party in Encore magazine led him to coin this three-word phrase to characterize the contrasting humor and danger central to Pinter’s plays.
The Birthday Party
Harold Pinter
comedy of menace [or comedies of menace] &lt;AR, Drama&gt;
In a scene from <em>A Visit From the Goon Squad</em>, Ted becomes fixated on a sculpture of these two people in the Museo Nazionale while searching for his niece Sasha in Naples. For 10 points each:
Name these two people whose story is interwoven with an alternate history of rock and roll in Salman Rushdie’s novel The Ground Beneath Her Feet.
In Richard Powers’ novel Orfeo, Peter Els is nicknamed “Bioterrorist [this composer]” after trying to encode melodies into bacteria. Powers also alluded to this composer in 1991’s The Gold Bug Variations.
Dino Buzzati used this form for a version of the Orpheus myth set in 1960s Milan. The protagonist listens to punk rock in rebellion against the extremism of the Islamic Revolution in a work in this form by Marjane Satrapi (“mar-ZHAHN sah-trah-pee”).
Orpheus AND Eurydice
J. S. Bach [or Johann Sebastian Bach]
graphic novel [or comic book] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
A character in this play describes the “circular logic” of “looking at an Escher painting and getting all confused” in a monologue that ends “We ARE like this. WE are LIKE this.” For 10 points each:
Name this work of documentary theatre organized by the Tectonic Theater Project. It consists of interviews with citizens of the title town surrounding the murder of an openly gay man.
Tectonic Theater Project founder Moisés Kaufman also adapted this author’s story about a male prostitute, titled “One Arm.” He created a teacher who leaves her plantation home shortly after discovering her husband Allan Grey’s homosexual affair, driving him to suicide.
Moisés Kaufman’s Gross Indecency fictionalizes the arrest of this Irish playwright for his relationship with Lord Alfred Douglas. He wrote The Importance of Being Earnest.
The Laramie Project
Tennessee Williams (That character is Blanche DuBois.)
Oscar Wilde &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about Marianne Williamson’s brand of spiritual “Judaism,” for 10 points each.
Williamson got her start as a mentor teaching a book called A Course in Miracles, which she popularized via this TV host and billionaire. This host’s “book club” also disseminated Rhonda Byrne’s The Secret.
Many ideas in Williamson’s book A Return to Love can be traced to Phineas Quimby’s New Thought, which was in turn influenced by a philosophy described by this adjective promoted in The Dial magazine. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi developed a mantra-based practice described by this adjective.
Williamson also derived influence from this doctor and fellow New Age spiritualist, a follower of the Transcendental Meditation movement who invented an alternative medicine system called “quantum healing.”
Oprah [or Oprah Gail Winfrey]
transcendental [or word forms like transcendentalism; accept transcendental meditation]
Deepak Chopra &lt;AA, Religion&gt;
John Donne’s “The Canonization” claims “We’ll build in [these things] pretty rooms.” For 10 points each:
Name these things. Dante Gabriel Rossetti analogized them to “a coin” whose “face reveals / The soul” in a poem that begins by declaring one of these things to be “a moment’s monument.”
In a sonnet, this Romantic poet advised a critic who was “mindless of its honours” to “Scorn not the sonnet.” He described hearing “old Triton blow his wreathèd horn” to close his sonnet “The World is Too Much With Us.”
Wordsworth’s “Scorn not the sonnet” claims “with this key / [this author] unlocked his heart.” This author’s Sonnet 18 asks “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”
sonnets [prompt on poems]
William Wordsworth
William Shakespeare &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
The narrator of a 1959 novel asks “Why is forgetfulness the plague of” one of these locations that is inhabited by three characters representing the Abrahamic religions. For 10 points each:
Name this type of location. In another novel, one of these locations is home to the barber Abbas, who is beaten to death by British soldiers after throwing a beer glass in the face of the prostitute Hamida.
Naguib Mahfouz (“na-GHEEB ma-FOOZ”) set the novels The Children of Gebelawi and Midaq Alley in the alleyways of this home country of his. Mahfouz wrote a trilogy set in this African country’s capital.
The protagonist of Mahfouz’s novel The Harafish, who is raised in an alley, retreats to a cave after one of these events. In another novel, Father Paneloux (“pan-LOO”) delivers a sermon claiming that God brought one of these events to Oran, Algeria.
alley [accept alleyway; accept Midaq Alley; prompt on street]
Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt; or Miṣr; or Khēmi]
a plague [accept The Plague or La peste] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
Mrs. Norman Culver claimed that the Fox sisters, two central figures in this movement, produced “rapping noises” by snapping their toes in order to mimic the sounds of its central figures. For 10 points each:
Name this religious movement that Arthur Conan Doyle was an ardent member of. A similarly named but distinct movement was founded by Allan Kardec.
This man had a falling out with Arthur Conan Doyle over the spiritualist movement. This magician died of a ruptured appendix after being punched in the stomach.
This president’s wife, Florence, was an ardent spiritualist who employed the medium Marcia Chaumphrey to expose plotters against her husband. Rumors at the time speculated that she may have had this president killed as revenge for his affair with Nan Britton.
Spiritualism [do not accept or prompt on “Spiritism”]
Harry Houdini [or Erik Weisz or Ehrich Weiss or Harry Weiss]
Warren G. Harding &lt;ML, US History&gt;
This poem invokes the “fair nymphs of Tagus” in its introductory section, which begins by mimicking Virgil’s <em>Aeneid</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poem in ottava rima that opens with the Greek gods watching over its protagonist Vasco de Gama. It is considered the national epic of Portugal.
After invoking the gods, Luís de Camões’s (“kah-MOISH’s”) Lusíadas parallels other epics by opening in this manner. In Ars Poetica, Horace coined this three-word Latin term to describe when a work begins amidst the action.
The opening is considered in medias res because the protagonist has just left this geographic location. Camões personifies this place as a “grotesque and enormous” Titan with “unkempt beard” named Adamastor.
The Lusiads [or Os Lusíadas]
in medias res [accept nonstandard in media res]
Cape of Good Hope [or Cape of Storms; prompt on Cape or Africa] &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
Answer the following about food in early England, for 10 points each.
Costermongers were tasked with testing fruits and vegetables and drew their name from the Costard variety of this fruit, which sometimes names a holiday that celebrates the restoration of Charles II to the throne.
Garblers tested these goods for purity by putting them through a sieve (“siv”). These general goods were bought from the East and transported on the Silk Road and included cardamom, turmeric, and cinnamon.
Medieval Englishmen used these objects, sometimes made by putting a divot (“DIV-it”) in wooden squares and sometimes with large pieces of stale bread, in lieu of plates. Their name comes from a medieval French word for “to cut.”
apples [accept Oak Apple Day]
spices
trenchers &lt;ML, European History&gt;
Will Eisner’s graphic novel adaptation of this epic begins with its antagonist being granted magical powers from the Great Grey Rock of Evil. For 10 points each:
Name this epic about a crippled child who goes on to kill the Sosso king Soumaoro and found the Mali Empire. It is one of many tales orally preserved by bards known as griots (“GREE-ohs”).
Many stories in West African oral tradition are about this trickster god who typically took the form of a spider.
Yoruban (“YO-roo-bin”) oral tradition inspired much of this author’s work, such as a novel about a boy abandoned in a supernatural realm titled My Life in the Bush of Ghosts. In this author’s first novel, a rich man travels to Dead’s Town.
Epic of Sundiata [or Sundiata: An Epic of Old Mali; or anything indicating an epic about Sundiata; accept Sunjata, Son-Jara, or Mari Diata in place of “Sundiata”]
Anansi
Amos Tutuola (The unnamed novel is The Palm-Wine Drinkard.) &lt;JM, Misc Lit&gt;
This author’s debut play pioneered drama in his country’s native dialect rather than Modern Standard Arabic. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian dramatist of The People of the Cave who later became famous for plays like Song of Death, in which a university student is forced to carry out a blood feud for his family.
al-Hakim wrote a play with this title in which a man kills himself after destroying a sculpture. Eliza Doolittle is taught to lose her Cockney accent in an earlier play with this title by George Bernard Shaw.
al-Hakim’s contemporary Ahmed Shawqi wrote a play about this figure’s death that portrays her as heroic. Shawqi’s depiction contrasts with a Shakespearean depiction of this character in which Enobarbus claims “Age cannot wither… Her infinite variety.”
Tawfiq al-Hakim
Pygmalion
Cleopatra [accept The Death of Cleopatra] &lt;JM, Drama&gt;
This author wrote a poem that says “Could it here succeed / When scarcely twenty in the town can read?” to mock his hometown of Bristol. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote in that poem “Rowley discharges all,” referencing a fictional 15th-century monk to which this author attributed many forgeries. His will ends “I leave my mother and my sister to the protection of my friends, if I have any” and was written before his suicide at age 17.
Chatterton’s will leaves some of these documents to young ladies, whom he assures need not worry about his ghost because he died for none of them. An epistolary novel collects many of these documents.
Chatterton wrote a work in this form “on Robert Canynge (“CAN-ing”).” This form commemorates someone who has died and is traditionally inscribed on their tombstone.
Thomas Chatterton
letters [accept love letters]
epitaph [accept “Epitaph on Robert Canynge”; do not accept or prompt on “epigraph”] &lt;ML, Misc Lit&gt;
A poem by Gregory Corso whose shape is inspired by one of these objects calls it “a paean an acme of scream / a lyric hat of Mister Thunder.” For 10 points each:
Name these objects. The speaker of another poem, dated “Berkeley, January 17, 1956,” says to the title country, “I’ve given you all and now I’m nothing” before telling it to “fuck itself” with one of these objects.
Gregory Corso and Allen Ginsberg, the authors of the poems “Bomb” and “America,” were both members of this counterculture “generation” of the 1950s.
This poet witnessed the aftermath of the bombing of Nagasaki while in the Navy. This co-founder of the City Lights bookstore described “looking like Walt Whitman / a homemade bomb in the pocket” in a poem from his collection A Coney Island of the Mind.
atomic bombs
Beat Generation
Lawrence Ferlinghetti [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti] (That poem is “Junkman’s Obbligato.”) &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
In one novel set under this government, the protagonist kills both a defrocked priest who propositions him and his neighbor, a dissident university professor. For 10 points each:
Name this government, the setting of The Conformist, which was critiqued in an essay that lists 14 principles of its ideology, including a cult of tradition, action for action’s sake, and selective populism.
The latter essay, “Ur-Fascism” was written by this author, better known for his novels Foucault’s Pendulum and The Name of the Rose.
The final principle of Eco’s essay claims that “Ur-Fascism speaks” this language. The appendix of a novel claims this “official language of Oceania” was “devised to meet the ideological needs of Ingsoc (“ING-sohsh”).”
Fascist Italy [prompt on fascism; prompt on Italy; accept the Mussolini regime]
Umberto Eco
Newspeak (from Nineteen Eighty-Four) &lt;JM, Long Fiction&gt;
The Europa Editions version of this series has book covers whose kitschy appearances have drawn comparisons to “chick-lit” art. For 10 points each:
Name this four-part series translated from Italian by Ann Goldstein. Its first entry begins with the disappearance of the protagonist’s “brilliant friend,” Lila Cerullo.
A major antagonizing force throughout Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan Novels is the Solara family, who head one of these organizations. Mario Puzo’s novel The Godfather centers on one of these organizations.
The pseudonymous Elena Ferrante was outed as translator Anita Raja in Claudio Gatti’s article printed in a magazine based in this city. That “Review of Books” based in this city publishes a celebrated line of “Classics.”
Neapolitan Novels [or Neapolitan Quartet]
mafia [or mob; or crime family; accept Cosa Nostra]
New York City [or NYC; accept The New York Review of Books or NYREV or NYRB] &lt;ML, Long Fiction&gt;
This author’s poem “The Rhodora” describes a “rival of the rose” brought into the world by the “self-same Power” that brought the speaker. For 10 points each:
Name this author who set a poem about the Revolutionary War by a “rude bridge that arched the flood” where “embattled farmers… fired the shot heard round the world.”
Emerson included an “Earth-Song” in his poem “Hamatreya,” which was inspired by this religion whose scriptures include the Bhagavad Gita.
The speaker of Emerson’s “Brahma” claims the “red slayer” and “the slain” don’t know the “ways I keep, and pass” and perform this two-word action. T. S. Eliot’s “Ash Wednesday” opens, “Because I do not hope” to perform this two-word action.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Hinduism
“turn again” &lt;NC, Poetry&gt;
This character “Proposes a Toast” in a follow-up that the author wrote to critique trends in public education. For 10 points each:
Name this senior employee at the “Lowerarchy” (“lower-ark-ee”) who, in one scene, turns into a centipede “in the heat of composition” of a letter. He advises Wormwood on how best to tempt “the Patient” into sin in an epistolary novel.
This author of The Screwtape Letters wrote seven fantasy novels that chronicle the land of Narnia.
In his novel Till We Have Faces, C. S. Lewis depicted the story of these two lovers from the perspective of Orual. Lucius listens to an old woman telling the story of these two people to comfort Charite (“KAH-ree-tay”) in a Latin novel.
Screwtape [accept The Screwtape Letters]
C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
Cupid AND Psyche [accept Eros in place of “Cupid”] &lt;AR, Long Fiction&gt;
Timur summoned Hafez to his court to explain a line in one of these poems that states “I’ll give Samarkand &amp; Bukhara, for her Hindu beauty mole.” For 10 points each:
Name this form of poetry that often expressed love or loss and ends each of its stanzas with the same word, known as a radif (“ra-DEEF”). The Urdu poet Ghalib (“GAH-lib”) was best known for writing poems in this form.
Each stanza of a ghazal has this many lines. A “Song of the Reed” opens Rumi’s Masnavi, a collection of “spiritual” poetry written in stanzas with this many lines.
The ghazal evolved from an Arabic poetic form called the qasida (“ka-SEE-da”), which is often referred to as a variety of these poems. John Keats’s examples of these poems include one “on a Grecian urn.”
ghazal (“guzzle”)
two [accept couplets]
odes [accept “Ode on a Grecian Urn”] &lt;JZ, Poetry&gt;
In a shot from this film, Robin Williams’ character places his hand on Todd’s eyes, pushes him in circles, and forces him to recite as the camera continuously revolves around the two. For 10 points each:
Name this film in which students at an East Coast boarding school recite “O Captain, My Captain!” in solidarity after their teacher John Keating is fired.
The death of the poet John Keats occurs towards the end of this New Zealand director’s film Bright Star. She became the first woman to win a Palme d’Or (“palm dor”) with her 1993 drama The Piano.
The dead poet Homer’s Odyssey inspired O Brother, Where Art Thou, a film by these directors who also worked on No Country for Old Men.
Dead Poets Society
Jane Campion
Coen brothers [accept Joel Coen or Ethan Coen] &lt;WA, Other Arts: Film&gt;
Answer the following about essays that transport authors outside their natural habitat, for 10 points each.
This author wrote how the title author would have been cured of “his too easy and comfortable pantheism” in an essay imagining “Wordsworth in the Tropics.” He wrote the dystopian Brave New World.
Laura Bohannan recounted Tiv chiefs identifying holes in the plot of Hamlet in her essay “Shakespeare in” this sort of place, which names Australian “ballads” like Banjo Paterson’s “Waltzing Matilda.”
The essay “Mr. Vonnegut in Sumatra” recalls this author’s time reading Slaughterhouse-Five while working in the oil industry. The subsidized housing complex “Sea Oak” appears in this contemporary author’s story collection Pastoralia.
Aldous Huxley
bush [accept bush ballads or bush bards; do not accept or prompt on “outback”]
George Saunders &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
This author coined a nonsense label to differentiate his novels from the realist literature being produced by his country at the time. For 10 points each:
Name this author who first used that term to describe a novel in which he inserted himself into a conversation with the suicidal Augusto Perez, whose eventual death is eulogized by his dog Orfeo.
In Unamuno’s Mist, Augusto claims this character overshadowed the author that created him. The author included his novel La Galatea among the books in this character’s library, which is burned by a priest and barber.
Unamuno’s Mist, Three Exemplary Novels, and essay “Our Lord Don Quixote” are among his many works responding to this Spanish author who created Don Quixote.
Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo
Don Quixote de la Mancha [or Alonso Quijano]
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra &lt;AR, Long Fiction&gt;
A poem by an author of this ethnicity asks “what is this thing called <em>aroha</em>?” before an interlocutor responds “like, I’m euchred (“YOO-kurd”), man, I’m eclipsed.” For 10 points each:
Name this ethnicity whose culture is explored in Kerri Hulme’s Booker-winning novel The Bone People, in which two people who are partially of this ethnicity raise a mute white child.
This country’s indigenous people are the subject of novels like The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith, written by Thomas Keneally (“kuh-NEEL-ee”). This country is home to the novelists Miles Franklin and Patrick White.
An author with this surname wrote about Gemmy Fairley, who is raised by Aborigines before trying to reintegrate into European society, in the novel Remembering Babylon. A French-Lebanese author with a similarly spelled surname wrote Samarkand and The Rock of Tanios.
Māori [do not accept or prompt on “New Zealander”] (The lead-in refers to Hone Tuwhare’s poem “Hotere.”)
Australia [or Commonwealth of Australia]
Malouf [accept David Malouf or Amin Maalouf] &lt;JM, Long Fiction&gt;
A poet with this surname maintained a rivalry with Eliza Haywood and drunkenly murdered James Sinclair during a nighttime walk. For 10 points each:
Give this name. A poet who had this [emphasize] middle name wrote a series of Imaginary Conversations with noted historical figures and evoked “A night of memories and of sighs / I consecrate to thee” in the poem “Rose Aylmer.”
This author used his biography The Life of Mr. Richard Savage as the basis of a famed chapter of his collection Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets.
Richard Savage’s most celebrated work is likely his five-canto poem titled for a man who performs this action. The speaker of William Wordsworth’s poem “Daffodils” recounts performing this action “lonely as a cloud.”
Savage [accept Richard Savage or Walter Savage Landor; do not accept or prompt on “Landor”]
Samuel Johnson
wandering [accept The Wanderer or “I wandered lonely as a cloud”] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
Name these alcoholic beverages found throughout Latin America, for 10 points each.
This hard alcohol is primarily made in Mexico, where it is distilled from the blue agave (“uh-GAH-vay”) plant, unlike mezcal, which is made from any agave. It shares its name with a city in Jalisco (“ha-LEESE-ko”).
This delicious Brazilian cocktail is typically made with cachaça (“ka-SHA-sa”) rum, sugar, and lime.
In the highlands of the Andes, one may drink this corn-based beer during such festivals as the Yamor festival of Ecuador. This drink’s non-alcoholic variants, such as a sweet “morada” variety, are served at many restaurants.
tequila
caipirinha (“kye-pee-REEN-ya”)
chicha [accept chicha morada] &lt;WA, Geography&gt;
An anthology of plays in this genre by Donald Keene is titled for the stock character of the “blue-eyed” servant Tarokaja. For 10 points each:
Give this genre of Japanese comedy that developed out of a form known as “monkey music.” This farcical genre, whose name translates to “mad words,” was usually performed during interludes between Noh plays.
The comic dialogue of kyōgen contrasted with the gravity of Noh, which used these props to convey emotion. Greek theatre is often symbolized by two of these props expressing tragedy and comedy.
Because they were contemporaneous and both included stock characters, kyōgen is often compared to this genre of Italian theatre. Plays in this genre often featured the pedantic Il Dottore and the greedy Pantalone.
kyōgen (“KYOH-ghen”) [accept aikyōgen]
masks
commedia dell’arte [prompt on comedy of the profession] &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
T. S. Eliot claimed that these two authors “divide the world between them. There is no third.” For 10 points each:
Name these two authors. The description of a feud between the Montecchi and the Cappelletti by one of these authors in his epic poem Inferno might have inspired the other to feature the families in his play Romeo and Juliet.
This Yale literary critic positioned Dante as the “second center” in relation to Shakespeare and began his enumeration of a “Western Canon” with essays on the two writers.
A lecture championing Dante and Shakespeare as examples of “The Hero as Poet” was delivered by this British author. His only novel examines the life of a scholar who studies the “philosophy of clothes.”
Dante AND William Shakespeare [accept Dante Alighieri in place of “Dante”]
Harold Bloom [prompt on Bloom]
Thomas Carlyle (That novel is Sartor Resartus.) &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
Tao Lin’s second novel, which concerns a relationship between characters named Haley Joel Osment and Dakota Fanning, is titled for this novelist. For 10 points each:
Name this American author who included imaginary interior dialogue in a novel depicting the breakdown of the middle-class couple Frank and April in 1950s suburbia, titled Revolutionary Road.
Revolutionary Road ends with Frank mourning April after she dies trying to perform this action. The director of St. Cloud’s Orphanage, Dr. Wilbur Larch, performs this service in John Irving’s The Cider House Rules.
After Lafe tricks her into having sex, Dewey Dell repeatedly struggles to get an abortion in As I Lay Dying, a novel by this Mississippi author.
Richard Yates (Lin’s novel is Richard Yates.)
abortions
William Faulkner &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
In his Nobel acceptance speech, this playwright described being “too proud of [his] debt to Strindberg.” For 10 points each:
Name this author whose expressionist tendencies inspired his use of masks in plays like The Great God Brown. In another of his plays, the brutish sailor Yank passes rich pedestrians wearing masks on Fifth Avenue.
O’Neill contributed to the expressionist plays put on by a group founded by Susan Glaspell in this state’s city of Provincetown. Arthur Miller’s The Crucible depicts trials in this state.
An unnamed woman murders her husband in a pioneering expressionist play by Sophie Treadwell titled for one of these things. The accountant Mr. Zero ends up in Elysian Fields after murdering his boss in a play by Elmer Rice titled for one of these things.
Eugene O’Neill (The second play is The Hairy Ape.)
Massachusetts
machines [accept Machinal or The Adding Machine] &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about some brothers who were major influences on European literature, for 10 points each.
An 1812 collection published by these German siblings established the modern versions of fairy tales like “Snow White” and “Hansel and Gretel.”
A journal documenting the gossip and happenings of the 19th-century Parisian literary sphere was maintained by two French brothers of this surname, who funded the most prestigious award for French prose, their “Prix” (“pree”).
Two brothers with this surname established early German Romanticism by founding the publication Athenaeum. One brother, August Wilhelm, made the first translations of Shakespeare into German.
Brothers Grimm [accept Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm]
Goncourt (“gon-KOOR”) [accept Prix Goncourt]
Schlegel [accept August Wilhelm Schlegel or Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel] &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
A man in a novella by this author is struck by his realization that a daughter constantly mimics her mother’s facial expressions and movements, and thus provides him a model for his imitation of a general. For 10 points each:
Name this author who also wrote a novel that opens with a king nicknamed El Señor constructing a massive palace and mausoleum to honor his family and himself, as he is the last in his line.
Many of Fuentes’s novels discuss the early 20th-century revolution in this North American country, where he spent most of his life.
The structure of Fuentes’s Christopher Unborn is based on this novel, which Samuel Johnson said “did not last” because “Nothing odd will do long.” This novel frequently digresses in relating the “Life and Opinions” of its title gentleman.
Carlos Fuentes (Those works are Aura and Terra Nostra.)
Mexico [or México; or United Mexican States]
Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman] (by Laurence Sterne) &lt;ML, Long Fiction&gt;
The author of this novel tried to pass it off as an Italian manuscript translated by William Marshal. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Father Jerome discovers that Theodore is his long-lost son. Theodore saves the princess Isabella from marrying the villainous lord Manfred at the conclusion of this novel by Horace Walpole.
The Castle of Otranto is a foremost example of this genre, whose novels were traditionally set in gloomy castles and blended elements of horror and romance
The legend of the Bleeding Nun features in this Gothic novel, in which Father Ambrosio descends into sin after being tempted by Matilda.
The Castle of Otranto
Gothic fiction
The Monk (by Matthew Gregory Lewis) &lt;ML, Long Fiction&gt;
Jez Butterworth’s 2017 play <em>The Ferryman</em> centers on the patriarch of a country home who is a former member of this organization. For 10 points each:
Name this organization. The protagonist of the play The Shadow of a Gunman is mistaken for a member of this organization, gaining the affection of a woman who later hides a bag of bombs to prevent his arrest.
Sean O’Casey’s Shadow of a Gunman was premiered at this Dublin theatre, co-founded by Lady Gregory and W. B. Yeats (“yates”). Audiences rioted at its 1907 premiere of J. M. Synge’s (“sing’s”) The Playboy of the Western World.
Sean O’Casey’s play The Plough and the Stars depicts this historical event. A poem by Yeats declares “A terrible beauty is born” during this 1916 event.
IRA [or Irish Republican Army]
Abbey Theatre [or National Theatre of Ireland]
Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion] &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
Benjamin Moser’s 2019 biography of this author emphasizes her relationships with women like María Irene Fornés and Annie Leibovitz. For 10 points each:
Name this author who inspired the 2019 Met Gala theme by writing an essay interspersed with Oscar Wilde quotes about the “triumph of the epicene style,” titled “Notes on ‘Camp.’”
Sontag’s story “The Way We Live Now” is mainly centered around the crisis of this disease, which is a focus of Tony Kushner’s play Angels in America.
An essay by this author begins “the news of Susan Sontag’s death arrived as a single sentence spoken in the opening moments of a radio news program.” She related being lectured on her own book River of Shadows, which is about photographer Eadweard Muybridge (“Edward MY-bridge”), in an essay that coined the term “mansplaining.”
Susan Sontag
AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; or HIV; or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; or HIV/AIDS]
Rebecca Solnit (Those essays are “Sontag and Tsunami” and “Men Explain Things to Me.”) &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
A poem that claims to be a completion of this work begins by addressing a “Muse of the past, Divinity sublime.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem for which Alphonse de Lamartine wrote that “Last Canto.” This autobiographical narrative poem in four cantos popularized its author’s namesake “hero,” who is often rebellious or moody.
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage was written by this Romantic poet, best known for “She Walks in Beauty.”
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage coined this common name for a Venetian landmark, where Harold stands with “A palace and a prison on each hand.” A Thomas Hood poem about a young woman’s suicide shares its name with this structure.
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron; or the 6th Baron Byron]
Bridge of Sighs [prompt on bridge] &lt;ML, Poetry&gt;
An essay praising the coral worm’s “spirit of prophecy” and the bee’s problem-solving ability describes how one of these animals opens a door daily, marking the shadowy “boundary between instinct and reason.” For 10 points each:
Give this color and type of animal. The shriek of one of these animals reveals the narrator of a story had “walled the monster up within the tomb” after earlier gouging out the eye of one of these animals named Pluto.
The essay “Instinct vs. Reason – A Black Cat” was written by this author of macabre stories like “The Black Cat” and “The Tell-Tale Heart.”
Poe wrote a satirical story on how to write for an Edinburgh magazine with this name that serialized Heart of Darkness. Two men travel down the Danube in the horror story “The Willows” by an author with this surname.
black cats [prompt on cats by asking “what color?”]
Edgar Allan Poe
Blackwood [accept “How to Write a Blackwood Article” or Blackwood’s Magazine or Algernon Blackwood] &lt;NC, Short Fiction&gt;
Answer the following about depictions of feminist utopias, for 10 points each.
Three bumbling male explorers discover a peaceful all-female society in this author’s novel Herland. She wrote a story about a woman who hallucinates after being prescribed “rest cure” by her husband.
In Marge Piercy’s Woman on the Edge of Time, Connie Ramos communicates with a future devoid of hierarchy from within one of these places. Ken Kesey’s novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest is set in one of these places.
The boy Petronius attempts to upheave a matriarchal society comprised of “wim” and “menwim” in Egalia’s Daughters, by an author from this country. A series of novels from this country center on a headstrong Catholic woman during the Middle Ages.
Charlotte Perkins Gilman (That story is “The Yellow Wallpaper.”)
insane asylum [or mental institution; or psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]
Norway [or Kingdom of Norway] (That series is Sigrid Undset’s Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.) &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
Name these writers who highlighted workers’ struggles in mid-20th-century California, for 10 points each.
This author depicted the struggles of migrant laborers George and Lennie in his novella Of Mice and Men.
This author included labor journalist Carey McWilliam’s novel Southern California Country in his 28-volume American Folkways series. This author of Tobacco Road collaborated with photographer Margaret Bourke-White on the documentary series You Have Seen Their Faces.
This author’s novel If He Hollers Let Him Go depicts the struggles of a black shipyard worker in Los Angeles. Nine “hardboiled” novels make up his Harlem Detective series.
John Steinbeck [or John Ernst Steinbeck Jr.]
Erskine Caldwell [or Erskine Preston Caldwell]
Chester Himes [or Chester Bomar Himes] &lt;WA, Misc Lit&gt;
A poem titled for the “Solitude” of this time describes how the speaker “lay in a drowse” as “the blown flowers fell and filled my lap.” For 10 points each:
Give this time that titles an oft-memorized poem by the same author, whose speaker mistakes some light for “frost on the ground” before lowering his head and thinking of home.
This Tang poet mused on moonlight in his poems “The Solitude of Night” and “Quiet Night Thoughts.”
Li Bai’s “The Solitude of Night” describes how “The birds had all gone to their nests” after the speaker does this. Li wrote “Life in the world is but a big dream” in a poem titled for this action “on a Spring Day.”
night [accept “The Solitude of Night” or “Quiet Night Thoughts”]
Li Bai [or Li Po; or Li Bo]
waking up drunk [or equivalents; accept “Waking From Drunkenness on a Spring Day”] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
An essay from Edward Said’s (“sa-EED’s”) <em>Culture and Imperialism</em> examines the “dead silence” that occurs after the protagonist mentions this place’s support by slave labor on sugar plantations in Antigua. For 10 points each:
Name this estate owned by Thomas Bertram. At the age of 10, Bertram’s niece Fanny Price moves to this title estate of an 1814 novel.
This author, the subject of many letters by her niece Fanny Knight, depicted the heroine Fanny Price in her novel Mansfield Park.
Austen took the title Pride and Prejudice from the final chapter of the novel Evelina. This writer with the first name Fanny decried the “vile poem” by George Huddesford that outed her as the anonymous author of Evelina.
Mansfield Park
Jane Austen
Fanny Burney [or Frances Burney] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
The protagonist describes himself as a “man of two faces” after fleeing this country to Los Angeles, where he spies on “the General” in the 2016 novel <em>The Sympathizer</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Paul Berlin chases a man who tries to walk from this modern-day country to Paris in the novel Going After Cacciato (“ka-CHA-toh”).
Going After Cacciato was written by this author, who fictionalized his time in the Vietnam War in the collection The Things They Carried.
A poem by Ocean Vuong (“VOO-ung”) about the Fall of Saigon is titled for this poetic genre “with Burning City.” The speaker of another poem in this genre declares “I work all day, and get half-drunk at night.”
Vietnam [or Việt Nam; or Socialist Republic of Vietnam]
Tim O’Brien
aubade (“oh-BOD”) [accept “Aubade with Burning City”] (The other poem is “Aubade” by Philip Larkin.) &lt;JM, Misc Lit&gt;
An elegiac couplet typically consists of a line in this meter followed by a line in pentameter. For 10 points each:
Name this poetic meter often described as “epic” for its use in such works as the Iliad, Odyssey, and Aeneid.
Theseus’s abandonment of Ariadne is depicted in a long ekphrastic passage of this epyllion in dactylic hexameter that centers on the wedding of Peleus and Thetis. It is the longest poem by Catullus.
Catullus 51 mostly translates a fragment in which this poet described a lover who seems “to be equal to a god.” Both poems use the stanza named for this female poet from Lesbos.
dactylic hexameter [prompt on hexameter; prompt on epic meter or heroic hexameter]
Catullus 64
Sappho &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
A poem titled for this city notes “I always like the summer” because you can “be warm / all the time / not only when you go to bed / and sleep” and was written by Nikki Giovanni, who grew up in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose summer is also the subject of a prose piece that was written in 90 minutes and became the prologue to the author’s tragic autobiographical novel A Death in the Family.
Knoxville contains a Heritage Square dedicated to this author, who extended one of his many interviews for Playboy into the book The Autobiography of Malcolm X.
Though he grew up in Knoxville, this author later moved to Texas, whose landscape inspired him to pen Westerns like Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men.
Knoxville, Tennessee (The unnamed work is James Agee’s “Knoxville: Summer of 1915.”)
Alex Haley [or Alexander Murray Palmer Haley]
Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy] &lt;RK, Misc Lit&gt;
Sophocles’ play <em>The Women of Trachis</em> ends with the death of this man after his wife sends him a poisoned shirt. For 10 points each:
Name this character who, in a Euripides play about his “madness,” murders his family after bringing Cerberus from the underworld for his twelfth labor.
Euripides’ play The Madness of Heracles inspired this later author’s play The Mad Hercules, which is among his ten blood-thirsty tragedies. Another of those tragedies by this non-French author is Phaedra.
Euripides submitted Alcestis to the Dionysia in place of one of these works, which often centered on Heracles. This dramatic genre, which is named for the raucous creatures that featured in it, was the third most popular genre of ancient theatre after tragedy and comedy.
Heracles [or Herakles or Hercules]
Seneca the Younger [or Lucius Annaeus Seneca]
satyr play &lt;AR, Drama&gt;
This action titles a love poem whose speaker claims “everything carries me to you, / as if everything that exists… were little boats / that sail / toward those isles of yours that wait for me.” For 10 points each:
Name this action. A line from W. S. Merwin’s translation of a certain poem states that “love is so short” while this action “is so long.”
The poet attributes this quality to the line “Love is so short, forgetting is so long.” The poet writes “The night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distance” after promising to write lines of poetry with this quality.
This Chilean poet of “If You Forget Me” included “Tonight I Can Write the Saddest Lines” in his Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
forgetting [or “If You Forget Me”]
saddest [accept “Tonight I Can Write the Saddest Lines” or “Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche”; prompt on sad or triste]
Pablo Neruda &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
This collection closes with a poem that says “Beloved, thou hast brought me many flowers.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection whose other poems include ones imploring their addressee to “love me for love’s sake” and to “call me by my pet name.” One of its poems asks “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.”
This Victorian poet referenced her admiration for Luís de Camões (“ka-MOISH”) by publishing her collection of love poems under the title Sonnets from the Portuguese.
The first of Barrett’s Sonnets opens with the poet remarking “I thought once how” this earlier poet “had sung.” One of this poet’s Idylls (“idles”) tells the love of Polyphemus (“puh-LIFF-uh-muss”) and Galatea.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning; prompt on Browning]
Theocritus &lt;AR, Poetry&gt;
One of this author’s poems opens, “I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an end.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Hymn to Proserpine.” This author’s poem Atalanta in Calydon contains a chorus that opens, “when the hounds of spring are on winter’s traces.”
A Swinburne poem set in one of these locations belonging to Proserpine describes it as a place “where the world is quiet.” The narrator of an Andrew Marvell poem states that “no white nor red was seen” as lovely as the color of one of these locations.
In this Marvell poem, the speaker informs the title character that we don’t actually have “world enough and time” because the speaker hears “Time’s wingèd chariot hurrying near.”
Algernon Swinburne [or Algernon Charles Swinburne]
garden [accept “The Garden of Proserpine”]
“To His Coy Mistress” &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
Name some things about ancient Roman foods. For 10 points each:
This ubiquitous sauce was made from fermenting ground fish intestines mixed with salt. Kosher jars of this sauce were found at Pompeii, and factories that made this sauce were usually outside city limits because of the horrific smell.
Romans who served as these people ate raw garlic because of a common belief that raw garlic would strengthen them. These people were judged with the pollice verso.
Grain used to make this food was given to the poor in the city of Rome for free. This food along with circuses was the subject of a quip by Juvenal.
garum
gladiators [prompt on slaves]
bread &lt; Nathan Fredman | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
This poet wrote “the heart is full, the world is void” in his poem “Longing for Death.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who asked “Must the morning always return? Will the despotism of the earthly never cease?” in his collection Hymns to the Night.
Novalis was a member of the German Romanticism movement, as was this author of “Der Erlkönig.” This German poet also wrote the two-part play Faust.
This other German Romantic spoke of “a legend of bygone ages” when detailing the “fairest of maidens” who lures sailors into their death in his poem “The Lorelei.”
Novalis [or Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
(Christian Johann) Heinrich Heine &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
A character in this story hides in a church tower and rings the bell every day until the Germans leave Rouen. For 10 points each:
Name this story whose title character is stabbed with a cheese knife after slapping the prostitute Rachel.
This French author of “The Necklace” wrote “Mademoiselle Fifi.”
Maupassant’s story “Ball of Fat” ends with Cornudet (core-new-day) performing this action. This action makes everyone else feel uncomfortable and drowns out most of Rousset’s sobbing.
“Mademoiselle Fifi”
Guy de Maupassant [or Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant]
whistling “The Marseillaise” [or whistling the French National Anthem; accept humming; do NOT accept or prompt on “singing”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
This novel details the Election of 1952 and the abolition of the Zamindari system. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that details Rupa Mehra’s attempts to find a husband for her daughter Lata.
A Suitable Boy was written by this author of An Equal Music. This author used Pushkin sonnets for his novel The Golden Gate.
The Golden Gate follows a group of young upstarts in this city. The City Lights bookstore in this city helped many Beat Generation novelists get their start.
A Suitable Boy
Vikram Seth
San Francisco &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Literature &gt;
In one play, Bougrelas revolts against a fictional king from this country who is later attacked by a bear. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose throne is usurped by Ubu in a play by Alfred Jarry.
The fictional Polish king Basilio imprisons his son Segismundo in fear that he would become a tyrant in this play by Pedro Calderón de la Barca.
Pedro Calderón de la Barca was a playwright from this country. Calderon de la Barca, Lope de Vega, and Tirso de Molina wrote many plays during this country’s “Golden Age” of literature.
Republic of Poland [accept Republika Polska]
Life is a Dream [or La vida es sueño]
Spain [or Reino de Espana; or Kingdom of Spain] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
In a work with this title, the protagonist attempts to save other prisoners while building the Burma Death Railway. For 10 points each:
Give this name of a Richard Flanagan novel following Dorrigo Evans. This is also the title of a work that begins, “the months and days are the travellers of eternity.”
Richard Flanagan is an author from this country. Another author from this country, Thomas Keneally, wrote about a boy facing racism for his half-Aboriginal ancestry in The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith.
This Australian author who wrote about the artist Hurtle Duffield in The Vivisector described the death of a German explorer in his novel Voss.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North [or Oku no Hosomichi; or The Narrow Road to the Interior (by Matsuo Basho)]
Commonwealth of Australia
Patrick White [or Patrick Victor Martindale White] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
Famous examples of these types of songs include “Spanish Ladies” and “The Coasts of High Barbary.” For 10 points each:
Give this music genre that embodies a large number of “work songs” created and sung by sailors to pass the time while they were out voyaging.
A well-known sea shanty discusses handling a sailor in this state. Some options the song provides include “shave his belly with a rusty razor” and “put him in a longboat ’til he’s sober.”
In another shanty, seemingly unrelated lyrics intersperse the refrain “Way, haul away, we’ll haul away” a man with this name.
sea shanties [accept sea chanties]
drunken [accept “(What will we do with a) drunken sailor?”]
Joe [accept “Haul Away Joe”; do NOT accept or prompt on “Joseph” or other answers] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Miscellaneous &gt;
Name some poets who wrote about skylarks. For 10 points each:
Perhaps the most famous poem about a skylark is “To a Skylark” by this poet of “Ozymandias.”
The poems “The Caged Skylark” and “The Sea and the Skylark” were written by this author who told of “five Franciscan nuns” dying in a shipwreck in another poem.
This poet described a skylark “hang between” the green earth and blue sky in her poem “The Skylark.” This poet wrote about the sisters Laura and Lizzie being tempted by some super suspicious salesmen in “Goblin Market.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley
Gerard Manley Hopkins (the other poem is “The Wreck of the Deutschland”)
Christina (Georgina) Rossetti &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
In one work, this practice is explained in terms of the barbaric nature of a certain Brazilian tribe and their old encounters with the cruel methods of Portuguese explorers. For 10 points each:
Name this practice that one writer described happening to a prisoner after his arms were cut off while tied to a tree. That author concluded that doing this to an alive person is worse than if the person were dead.
This author who wrote “Of Cannibalism” is often considered the pioneer of the essay. Other essays by this French writer include “Of Vanity” and “On Friendship”.
Scholars often note the influence of Montaigne’s Essays on other authors such as this playwright, who used an almost exact passage of Montaigne’s essay “Of Cannibalism” in part of his play The Tempest.
cannibalism [prompt on eating people; accept “Of Cannibalism”]
Michel (Eyquem) de Montaigne
William Shakespeare &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
One character in this story changes her name to Hulga, a name her mother compares to a “broad blank hull of a battleship.” For 10 points each:
Name this story in which the bible salesman Manley Pointer steals Joy’s artificial leg.
“Good Country People” is by this Southern Gothic author of “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
In her story “The Life You Save May Be Your Own,” this is the first word Tom teaches the deaf Lucynell to say. The protagonist of a story by different author titled for these things fortifies his house after finding the bodies of the Trigg family.
“Good Country People”
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
bird [do not accept or prompt on specific birds] (the story is “The Birds” by Daphne du Maurier) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
In this novel, Joyce Emily dies in a train attack after the title character convinces her to join the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about a fascist sympathizer teaching her “set” of six chosen protegés at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie was written by this Scottish novelist. She also wrote books like Memento Mori and The Girls of Slender Means.
Along with Derek Stanford, Muriel Spark wrote a long essay detailing the life and works of this author of Wuthering Heights.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
Dame Muriel (Sarah) Spark
Emily Jane Brontë [prompt on Brontë] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
A Ban Zhao work titled <em>Lessons for [these people]</em>, lists humbleness, implicit obedience, and whole-hearted devotion among the seven qualities that these people should strive for. For 10 points each:
Name these people. A later work subtitled “with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects” criticized Rousseau for the views of these people that he laid out in his work on education Emile.
This is the work that criticized Emile. This early work in feminist literature was written in response to Talleyrand-Perigord’s report to the French National Assembly.
This activist and author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman laid out her thoughts on education in Thoughts on the Education of Daughters. She was also the mother of Mary Shelley.
women [accept logical equivalents such as females or girls]
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects [prompt on Rights of Woman]
Mary Wollstonecraft &lt; Bradley McLain | Social Science &gt;
Answer some questions about who John Galt was. For 10 points each:
John Galt originally works at one of these places and leaves after the company’s heirs announce that they will begin paying people based on need, leading to rampant corruption and its ultimate downfall.
John Galt appears as a Messianic figure in this novel which follows characters like Dagny Taggart and Hank Rearden as they struggle to keep their businesses afloat against burdensome laws.
John Galt was created by this Russian-American objectivist author of Atlas Shrugged. She also wrote The Fountainhead.
car factory [accept obvious equivalents like “motor company”; accept Twentieth Century Motor Company]
Atlas Shrugged
Ayn Rand [Alisa Zinovyevna Rosenbaum] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
Answer some questions about doggos in literature. For 10 points each:
This novel begins and ends with the sentence “Barrabas came to us by sea.” Unfortunately, the goodboy Barrabas dies during an engagement party for a woman who speaks for the first time in 9 years and a man who built Las Tres Marías.
In this novel by Milan Kundera, the woofer Karenin dies due to cancer in his leg while Tomáš and Tereza are living out in the countryside.
In Mikhail Bulgakov’s Heart of a Dog, Professor Preobrazhensky transplants a criminal’s pituitary glands and testicles into this doggo in an effort to create a primitive human. Give either the name that this pupper is given upon adoption by the Professor or his new human name.
House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espíritos]
The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí]
Sharik [or Poligraf Poligrafovich Sharikov; accept any underlined name] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
The speaker of this poem claims “Death is the mother of Beauty.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that ends by detailing the “ambiguous undulations” that “flocks of pigeons” make “as they sink/ downward to darkness, on extended wings.”
“Sunday Morning” is by this insurance company executive who also wrote the poems “The Emperor of Ice Cream” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
Stevens’ poem “Disillusionment of Ten O’Clock” ends with “an old sailor” catching [these animals] “in red weather.” The speaker of a poem by a different author titled for one of these animals asks “what art/ Could twist the sinews of thy heart?”
“Sunday Morning”
Wallace Stevens
tigers (the second poem is “The Tyger”) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
One character in this play cuts his arm after having a fake sword fight with his brother to make his father believe his brother is evil. For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespeare play whose title king divides his land between his daughters Goneril and Regan.
This son of Gloucester (Gloss-ter) is one of the main villains in King Lear. In one speech, this character mocks the word “legitimate” and asks “Why bastard? Wherefore base?”
A comical character in King Lear is King Lear’s Fool, who refers to Lear with this word, which may suggest familial relations between the two.
King Lear
Edmund
nuncle [do NOT accept or prompt on “uncle”] (nuncle means “mine uncle”) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
In the essay “Vesuvius at Home,” Adrienne Rich described the tone of this poem’s author as “kittenish.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose speaker instructs the addressee to not “tell! They’d advertise you know!” after asking the title question. The speaker also notes “how dreary” it is to be “public - like a frog!”
“I’m Nobody! Who are you?” was written by this Belle of Amherst whose other poems include “I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died” and “Because I Could Not Stop for Death.”
Thomas Higginson said that this Dickinson poem was the only one he “dread a little to print” “lest the malignant read into it more than that virgin recluse ever dreamed of putting there,” possibly referring to its final lines in which she exclaims “Ah - the Sea! Might I but moor tonight in thee!”
“I’m Nobody! Who are you?” [accept but do NOT otherwise reveal Dickinson 260 or 288]
Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson
“Wild Nights! Wild Nights!” [accept Dickinson 249 or 269] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Poetry &gt;
In one story in which this character appears, he uses the method of “ratiocination” to figure out that the narrator was thinking about the cobbler Chantilly. For 10 points each:
Name this character. In another story, this character describes a child winning marbles playing “even and odd” and receives 50,000 francs for recovering the title letter.
C. Auguste Dupin was a detective created by this author of “The Purloined Letter” and “The Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
In a story sometimes subtitled “A Sequel to ‘The Murders in the Rue Morgue,’” Dupin solves the mystery of this girl’s death. He determines that a sailor murdered this woman and dumped her body in the Seine.
C. Auguste Dupin [accept either underlined part]
Edgar Allen Poe
Marie Rogêt [accept either underlined portion; or “The Mystery of Marie Rogêt] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
Answer some questions about poetic parodies. For 10 points each:
“I chopped down the house that you had been saving to live in next summer/ I am sorry, but it was morning, and I had nothing to do.” is one of the variations by Kenneth Koch parodying this plum-addict’s poem “This is Just to Say.”
Ogden Nash parodied a Joyce Kilmer poem titled for these objects by saying that “unless the billboards fall/ I’ll never see [one of these objects] at all.” The speaker of a Robert Frost poem says that “one could do worse than be a swinger of [these objects].”
This author described Matthew Arnold and a girl “with the cliffs of England crumbling away behind them” in his poem “The Dover Bitch.”
William Carlos Williams
trees [accept “Birches” or logical equivalents like birch trees]
Anthony (Evan) Hecht &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
This novel follows a group’s journey to the wedding of Daranio and Silveria. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the two friends, Elicio and Erastro, who are enamored with the title character.
La Galatea is among the books of this character’s library, along with works like four sections of Amadis of Gaul and History of the Famous Knight Tirante the White. Unfortunately, this man’s library is burned down by the priest Dr. Perez and a barber.
La Galatea and Don Quixote are works by this Spanish author.
La Galatea
Don Quixote [accept El ingenioso hidalgo don Quijote de la Mancha]
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
Name some things about 20th-century African literature. For 10 points each:
This Egyptian author detailed the death of the recently released criminal Said Mahran in The Thief and the Dogs. This author also wrote about the al-Jawad family in the Cairo Trilogy.
This author detailed his switch from English to Gikuyu in the book Decolonizing the Mind. This Kenyan author also wrote the novels Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat.
Mariama Bâ, an author from this country, wrote about Ramatoulaye’s correspondence with Aissatou in her novel So Long a Letter. Another author from this country included his poem “Prayer to Masks” in the collection Shadow Songs.
Naguib Mahfouz
Ngũgĩ (GOO-gee) wa Thiong’o [or James Ngugi]
Republic of Senegal [or République du Sénégal] (the unnamed author is Léopold Senghor) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
This author wrote a poem with repeated phrases such as “Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you” and “Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, BOOM.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “The Congo.” This author also wrote about the founder of the Salvation Army in his poem “General William Booth Enters into Heaven.”
Vachel Lindsay wrote a poem about this “prairie lawyer” walking at midnight. This president legendarily said that Harriet Beecher Stowe was the “little woman that wrote the book that started this great war.”
A poem by Lindsay compares John Altgeld to one of these animals “that is forgotten.” A different poem about one of these animals states “the wrinkled sea beneath him crawls.”
(Nicholas) Vachel Lindsay
Abraham Lincoln [accept “Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight”; prompt on the American Civil War by saying “We’re asking for the president.”]
eagle [accept “The Eagle that is Forgotten” or “The Eagle” (by Tennyson)] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
After this character calls another “Baldhead Ass” he is beaten with a stick. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is upset at not drawing a perfect circle when signing his confession. The townspeople are later upset when this character never says any lines from an opera before he is executed.
This author included “The True Story of Ah Q” in his collection Call to Arms, which contains a story whose narrator sees the line, “Eat people!” written in many books. That story is “Diary of a Madman.”
Lu Xun was an author from this country. An author born in this country, Anchee Min, set her novel Becoming Madame Mao in this country.
Ah Quei [prompt on just “Ah” or “Quei”]
Lu Xun [or Zhou Shuren]
China [or Zhongguo; accept People’s Republic of China] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
The protagonist of one novel by this author is moved to tears by the piano playing of Mademoiselle Reisz. For 10 points each:
Name this author who described the death of Edna Pontellier in her novel The Awakening.
Kate Chopin wrote this story in which Armand shuns his wife when he believes she is part black, only to find a letter from his mother detailing his black ancestry.
In Chopin’s “The Story of an Hour,” Mrs. Mallard repeats this word under her breath after Josephine breaks some bad news to her.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O'Flaherty]
“Désirée’s Baby”
free &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
This play ends with Philinte and Éliante following the title character trying to change his mind. For 10 points each:
Name this play about the bitterness of Alceste -- especially towards Célimène who refuses to marry him.
This French playwright of The Imaginary Invalid and Tartuffe wrote The Misanthrope.
A character with this name created by Molière is a woodcutter who pretends to be the title Doctor in Spite of Himself. This is also the name of the protagonist of Molière’s play The Imaginary Cuckold.
The Misanthrope [or Le Misanthrope]
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
Sganarelle (suh-GAHN-uh-rell) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
Answer the following about Chinese-American literature. For 10 points each:
This author used her mother’s previous marriage as the basis for her novel The Joy Luck Club.
This author’s book The Woman Warrior is split into five sections and details the stories of characters like the “No Name Woman” and Fa Mu Lan.
In a David Henry Hwang play with this animal in its title, Rene Gallimard has an affair with the opera singer Song Liling, unaware that he is actually a man. In Ray Bradbury’s short story “A Sound of Thunder,” Eckels changes the future after he steps on one of these animals.
Amy Tan
Maxine Hong Kingston [or Maxine Ting Ting Hong]
butterfly [or M. Butterfly] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
One author from this country narrated his novel <em>This Earth of Mankind</em> to his prison mates since he was not allowed to write it down. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country whose coffee production was satirized in Max Havelaar, a novel written by a Dutch author under the pen name Multatuli.
This Earth of Mankind is the first novel of the Buru Quartet by this Indonesian author.
The second novel in the Buru Quartet is titled for one of these people of All Nations. A Salman Rushdie novel is titled for a group of these people born near midnight, such as Shiva and Saleem Sinai.
Republic of Indonesia
Pramoedya Ananta Toer [accept either underlined name]
children [accept Child of All Nations; accept Midnight’s Children (by Salman Rushdie)] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
This poet said love is a fart since “it pains a man when ’tis kept close/ And others doth offend when ’tis let loose.” For 10 points each:
Name this Cavalier poet whose poem “Why so pale and wan fond lover” appears in his play Aglaura.
The Cavalier poet Richard Lovelace wrote a poem addressed to Althea whose speaker states that “stone walls do not” make one of these institutions, “nor iron bars a cage.”
This other Cavalier poet included the poems “Corinna’s Going A-Maying” and “To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time” in his collection Hesperides.
Sir John Suckling (the poem in the lead-in is “Love’s Offence”)
prison [accept jail or other synonyms; accept “To Althea, from Prison”]
Robert Herrick &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
The transgender muslim woman Anjum attempts to make a life for herself in Delhi in a 2017 novel by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness who won the 1997 Man Booker Prize for a novel that features a scene where one of the main characters unknowingly masturbates the Orangedrink Lemondrink man outside of a performance of the Sound of Music.
Arundhati Roy wrote The Ministry of Utmost Happiness twenty years after this debut novel of hers about the childhood experience of the twins Rahel and Estha.
This other Indian author went into hiding after ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa for this author for writing Satanic Verses.
Arundhati Roy
The God of Small Things
(Sir Ahmed) Salman Rushdie &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Long Form-Literature &gt;
This essay notes how its author attempts to write for democratic socialism and against totalitarianism. For 10 points each:
Name this 1946 essay that claims all writers motive stem from sheer egoism, aesthetic enthusiasm, historical impulse, and political purpose. This essay explains the authors mix of detailed descriptions with purple passages in novels like Keep the Aspidistra Flying.
This other essay by the same author analyzes clashing images in the sentence that begins, "The Fascist octopus has sung its swan song." This 1946 essay criticizes overly jargony prose that makes use of "dying metaphors and "verbal false limbs."
This author wrote “Politics and the English Language” and “Why I Write.” This English author voiced his concerns of political dogmatism in his novel 1984.
“Why I Write"
"Politics and the English Language"
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair] &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Misc Literature &gt;
Answer some questions about English writers of essays. For 10 points each:
One such English essayist was Walter Pater who wrote about the contributions of this time period from people like Pico della Mirandola and Michelangelo.
This English author wrote a satirical essay comparing murder to the fine arts. This author wrote an autobiographical account of the “pleasures” and “pains” of his laudanum addiction.
This essayist described the seduction of his landlord’s daughter Sarah Walker in Liber Amoris. This friend of Charles Lamb wrote about 25 important men of the early 1800s in The Spirit of the Age.
the Renaissance
Thomas de Quincey (the book is Confessions of an English Opium Eater)
William Hazlitt &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
This poet wrote, “if someone doesn't want to hear the song of the reed flute / it's best to cut the conversation/ short, say good-bye, and leave.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of the Masnavi, or Spiritual Couplets.
The Spiritual Couplets was written in this language. Omar Khayyam’s collection of quatrains, the Rubaiyat, was written in this language.
The Persian poet Farid ud-Din Attar of Nishapur wrote The Conference of the Birds about a group of thirty birds led by the hoopoe in hopes of finding this King of the birds.
Rumi [or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi]
Persian [or Farsi]
Simurgh [or Simorgh; or Grimus] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
A kid in this novel spies on his mother through a hole in his wall. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that ends with Ryuji drinking a cup of drugged tea given to him by a group of boys that include Noboru and “The Chief.”
The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea is by this Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility Tetralogy.
This novel by Yukio Mishima is the first in the Sea of Fertility tetralogy. This novel follows the relationship between Satoko and Kiyoaki and ends with Kiyoaki’s death.
The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea [accept Gogo no Eiko; accept translations like The Afternoon Towing or The Afternoon Shiptowing]
Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]
Spring Snow [accept Haru no Yuki] &lt; Brad McLain | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
Some characters spread the rumor of a white horse in this play after the suicide of Beata. For 10 points each:
Name this play that culminates with the suicides of Rebecca West and Johannes.
Rosmersholm is a play by this Norwegian playwright of Hedda Gabler and A Doll’s House.
Ibsen also wrote this play in which Halvard Solness hires Ragnar Brovik as he fears Ragnar will be better than him. Halvard later dies after promising to create a “kingdom” for Hilda Wangel.
Rosmersholm
Henrik (Johan) Ibsen
The Master Builder [or Bygmester Solness] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
The protagonist of this novel visits Selig Mindish at Disneyland in an attempt to learn more about the death of his parents. For 10 points each:
Name this novel which fictionalizes the Rosenbergs as the Isaacson family.
The Book of Daniel is by this author of Billy Bathgate and Ragtime.
In Ragtime, this historical figure shows off his aviation skills to Franz Ferdinand, and earlier, his car breaks down, forcing him to visit Mother and Father. In The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, Josef’s knowledge of this escape artist’s tricks allows him to escape Nazi occupied Prague.
The Book of Daniel
E.L. Doctorow [or Edgar Lawrence Doctorow]
Harry Houdini [accept either underlined name; accept Eric Weisz] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
One character created by this author shouts at his future father-in-law, “If I don't have the money, you don't have the cows. Two and two make four.” For 10 points each:
Name this short story writer whose Odessa Tales focus on “The King” Benya Krik.
In the opening story of the Odessa Tales, Benya Krik compares a member of this profession to a “new broom” who is “always eager to sweep.” In an O. Henry short story, Soapy listens to an anthem coming from a church before being interrupted by a member of this profession.
In one story from Babel’s collection Red Cavalry, the narrator kills one of these animals to impress the other soldiers. One of these animals lays golden eggs in an Aesop fable.
Isaac (Emmanuilovich) Babel
police officer [accept chief of police; accept logical equivalents like cop]
goose [accept geese or gander; accept “My First Goose”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short Fiction &gt;
This play ends with a Doctor of Divinity telling the audience that Beauty, Five Wits, and Strength forsake them in the end, and only Good Deeds will help you in the final judgement. For 10 points each:
Name this anonymous 15th century play whose title character is summoned to tell all of his deeds to God.
Everyman is an example of this type of allegorical drama. This genre uses personified concepts that lead the protagonist toward a choice of good or evil.
Everyman begins with God asking this figure to bring Everyman to him. One of the Holy Sonnets by John Donne begins by telling this figure to “be not proud.”
Everyman [accept The Summoning of Everyman]
morality play [prompt on interlude]
Death &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
A speaker of one poem by this author hopes “smug-faced crowds” “will never know / the hell where youth and laughter go.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Suicide in the Trenches” who in another poem cried “O Christ, they’re coming at us!” in the poem “Counter-Attack.”
Sassoon was a contemporary of this poet who detailed the horrors of World War I in “Dulce et Decorum Est.”
Robert Graves wrote a memoir with this title detailing his World War I experiences with Siegfried Sassoon. This is also the title of a Joan Didion essay about her first experience in New York City.
Siegfried (Loraine) Sassoon
Wilfred Owen [or or Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]
Goodbye to All That &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
This character arrives at a town inn in County Mayo claiming to have just killed his father. For 10 points each:
Name this character. After winning a mule race, this character gets into a fight with his not-so-dead father and hits him on the head with a spade, believing he has finally killed him.
The still-not-dead Old Mahon saves his son Christy from being hanged at the end of this author’s play The Playboy of the Western World. Other plays by this author include In the Shadow of the Glen and Riders to the Sea.
J.M. Synge was an author from this country. The premier of Synge’s play The Playboy of the Western World sparked riots in this country’s city of Dublin.
Christy Mahon [or Christopher Mahon; prompt on Mahon; prompt on The Playboy of the Western World; do NOT accept or prompt on “Old Mahon”]
J.M. Synge [or Edmund John Millington Synge]
Ireland [or Éire] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
One figure with this profession gives his boss a dog that he stole from Kraus von Zillergut. For 10 points each:
Name this profession, members of which are the subject of Erich Maria Remarque’s novel All Quiet on the Western Front.
While not exactly a soldier, Edward Ashburnham is the subject of the novel The Good Soldier by this American author.
Ford’s The Good Soldier is not to be confused with this other good soldier created by Jaroslav Hašek (huh-SHEK). This man gets arrested by his fellow Czech troops after putting on a Russian uniform.
soldier [accept logical equivalents like serviceman or trooper]
Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer]
Josef Svejk (shuh-vay-ek) [also written Josef Schweik; prompt on Josef (yo-siff)] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
A poem about this man mentions the “huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip.” For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet leader. Osip Mandelstam’s “Epigram” of this Georgian-born leader led to Mandelstam’s exile.
This other Russian poet mourned the imprisonment of her son during Stalin’s regime in several sections of her elegy Requiem.
The speaker of this Akhmatova poem opens by stating that “I have lit my treasured candles, one by one, to hallow this night.”
Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili]
Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]
“Poem without a Hero” [or “Poema bez geroya”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
These animals get into an argument over whether or not the Jew Pyrot stole 80 thousand trusses of hay in a parody of the Dreyfus Affair. For 10 points each:
Identify these animals that are accidentally baptized by the bishop Mael, leading God to decide to turn them into humans.
This author of Penguin Island wrote about Évariste Gamelin’s role in the Reign of Terror in The Gods Are Athirst.
Anatole France was the basis for Bergotte (bear-goat) in this French author’s long seven-volume novel In Search of Lost Time.
penguins
Anatole France [accept Jacques-Anatole-Francois Thibault]
Marcel Proust &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
This author’s poem “News Item” says “men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses.” For 10 points each:
Name this witty member of the Algonquin Round Table who gives the downsides of many suicide techniques, ending by noting, “you might as well live” in her poem “Resumé.”
The title character of this Edwin Arlington Robinson poem obviously didn’t get the memo before the “calm summer night” when he “put a bullet through his head.”
This poet who committed suicide in 1932 describes the title author seeing an embassy bequeathed “dice of drowned man’s bones” in his poem “At Melville’s Tomb.” A long poem by this author begins with a seagull flying over the title structure “over the chained bay waters Liberty.”
Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]
“Richard Cory”
(Harold) Hart Crane (the long poem is The Bridge) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
Answer some questions about title female characters. For 10 points each:
This author wrote a novel titled after a matchmaker who eventually marries George Knightley. This author of Emma also wrote about the Bennet sisters in Pride and Prejudice.
Felipe Montero falls in love with the title magical girl in this author’s novel Aura. Another character created by this author is killed by Tomas Arroyo after he finds out Harriet Winslow slept with Arroyo.
This woman created a Scots-Native American girl who experiences discrimination in her novel Ramona. This activist’s other famous work pertaining to Native Americans is A Century of Dishonor.
Jane Austen
Carlos Fuentes Macias (the unmentioned novel is The Old Gringo)
Helen Hunt Jackson &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
The title character of one play by this author promises to give up prostitution before she marries Mat Burke. For 10 points each:
Name this American playwright of Anna Christie. Other plays by this man include Strange Interlude and Desire Under the Elms.
This play by Eugene O’Neill follows members of the Tyrone family like the tubercular Edmund and the morphine-addicted Mary.
This author and her husband George Cram Cook founded the Provincetown Players which popularized many of O’Neill’s works. In her play Trifles, Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Peters hide a strangled canary which they believe would lead to the conviction of Minnie.
Eugene (Gladstone) O’Neill
Long Day’s Journey Into Night
Susan (Keating) Glaspell &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
This man opened his poem “The Passage” with the lines, “BEFORE YOU, my mother Idoto/ naked I stand.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who mourned the death of “AN OLD STAR” who “leaves us here on the shore” in his poem “Elegy for Alto.”
Christopher Okigbo was a poet from this country. This country was also the birthplace of Chinua Achebe, author of Things Fall Apart.
Okigbo’s poem “Elegy for Alto” appears in a collection titled for the Path of [this phenomenon]. “What [this phenomenon] Said” is the title of the final section of T.S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land.”
Christopher (Ifekandu) Okigbo
Federal Republic of Nigeria
thunder [accept Path of Thunder or “What the Thunder Said”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
The speaker of one poem asks this woman for a “thousand kisses, then a hundred.” For 10 points each:
Name this woman who was believed to be Clodia. The speaker of another poem mourns this woman’s dead sparrow who was “sweeter than honey.”
This Roman poet wrote many poems to Lesbia, as well as a poem mourning the loss of his brother, “Ave Atque Vale.”
The speaker of one poem by Catullus tells Asinius Marrucinus to write “300 hendecasyllabic verses” or return one of these items that Asinius stole.
Lesbia
Gaius Valerius Catullus
napkins [accept “Saetaban napkins”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
In one novel, this character is fascinated by the blind poet Shaper. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of a John Gardner novel and descendant of Cain. In another work, this character’s arm is torn off and hung from the rafters of Heorot.
Grendel is killed by the title character of this Old English epic poem.
This Old English word begins the poem. This word is thought to mean “Listen;” however, Seamus Heaney translated this word as “So.”
Grendel
Beowulf
hwæt (sounds like “cat” or “wait”) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
Heroic outlaws are a staple of folk stories. Answer some questions about them. For 10 points each:
This lover of Maid Marian and friend of Little John and Will Scarlet is frequently depicted antagonizing Prince John and the Sheriff of Nottingham with his Merry Men.
This character’s story first appears in the White Book of Sarnen, which lists this figure as a conspirator in the Rutli oath. This character’s most famous act resulted from failing to remove his hat at the sight of Albrecht Gessler, after which some sources say this character shot Gessler with a crossbow.
Ishikawa Goemon, a Japanese heroic outlaw, was said to have been executed in this manner as punishment for trying to kill Toyotomi Hideyoshi. In Greek myth, Minos was killed in this manner by the daughters of Cocalus.
Robin Hood
William Tell
boiling [accept any answer about using hot water to kill someone] &lt; Bradley McLain | Mythology, Legends, and Stories &gt;
This woman’s grandmother burns Plum alive with kerosene, and her mother dies after her dress catches on fire. For 10 points each:
Name this title character -- a resident of Bottom and friend of Nel Wright.
This author of The Bluest Eye and Beloved wrote Sula.
In The Bluest Eye, after Pecola is raped by her father, this narrator and her sister Freida plant some marigold seeds hoping that the seeds blooming will be a sign that Pecola’s child will live.
Sula Peace [prompt on Peace]
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
Claudia MacTeer [accept either name] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
One character created by this man feigns impotence in order to sleep with married women. For 10 points each:
Name this Restoration playwright whose most famous play contains the “china scene” and follows Horner’s attempts to seduce women.
This other Restoration playwright wrote about Mirabel marrying Millamant in The Way of the World. His other plays include The Mourning Bride and Love for Love.
Aphra Behn, the Restoration author of The Rover and Oroonoko, was employed by Charles II in this profession. Ian Fleming partly based his most famous character with this profession off himself.
William Wycherley (the play is The Country Wife)
William Congreve
spy [accept logical equivalents like agent or intelligence officer] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
This play was based off of the author’s earlier play <em>The Wood Demon</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this play whose title character shoots at, but misses, Serebryakov after being told that the estate is going to be sold. Serebryakov’s wife, Yelena, is caught in a love triangle with this play’s title character and the nature-loving doctor Astrov.
Uncle Vanya was written by this Russian playwright of The Cherry Orchard and The Seagull.
In The Seagull, before this action occurs, several manuscripts are torn up by a character who says, “my mother would be distressed.” After this action occurs, Dorn informs Arkadina that one of his medicine bottles shattered.
Uncle Vanya [or Dyadya Vanya]
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
Constanin Gavrilovich Treplev shooting himself [accept either “Constantin” or “Treplev” for the name of the character; accept general description of Treplev committing suicide or killing himself for “shooting himself”; prompt on the death of Treplev (or Constantin) with “How does he die?”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
At the beginning of this novel, one character remembers an afternoon when he was taken to discover ice. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. Towards the end of this novel, Amaranta gives birth to a pig-tailed child who is devoured by ants.
One Hundred Years of Solitude was written by this Colombian author of Love in the Time of Cholera.
In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Aureliano Segundo competes in this sort of competition with a woman nicknamed “The Elephant.” After 48 hours of battle, Aureliano Segundo asks to be taken to Fernanda before he falls unconscious as a result of this competition.
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad]
Gabriel (José de la Concordia) Garcia Marquez
eating competition [accept eating duel; accept logical equivalents of a competition to see who can eat the most (use your best judgement here)] &lt; Michael Etzkorn / Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
In this novel, Ralph Marvell commits suicide, allowing the protagonist to marry Raymond de Chelles. For 10 points each:
Name this novel centering on Undine Spragg attempting to live a rich lifestyle. In this novel, Undine eventually marries Elmer Moffatt.
The Custom of the Country is by this author of The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Ethan Frome falls in love with this character, the cousin of his wife Zeena. This character is somewhat responsible for the cat breaking Zeena’s favorite pickle dish.
The Custom of the Country
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
Mattie Silver [accept either underlined name] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
This poet referenced his time at a mental hospital in his poem “Waking in the Blue.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet. This author described an animal who “drops her ostrich tail, and will not scare” in his poem “Skunk Hour.”
Lowell’s poem “For the Union Dead” describes St. Gaudens’ statue in this city that commemorates Robert Gould Shaw and the colored 54th Regiment. Robert Frost wrote a collection titled for North of [this city].
Robert Lowell’s relative, Amy Lowell, wrote this poem about the speaker’s husband-to-be dying while “fighting with the Duke in Flanders” making her exclaim “Christ! What are [the title constructions] for?”
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
Boston [accept North of Boston]
“Patterns” &lt; Mitch McCullar | Poetry &gt;
The speaker of this poem mistakenly compares himself to “stout Cortez” discovering the Pacific Ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this poem. The speaker of this poem claims to have travelled in “realms of gold,” but never breathed “pure serene” until hearing the “loud and bold” voice of the title translator.
“On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer” is by this English Romantic who philosophized on death in his “Ode to a Nightingale” and claimed “beauty is truth -- truth beauty” in an “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
In a Keats sonnet, the speaker wishes to be as “steadfast” and “still unchangeable” as this kind of object, in the sense that he wishes to be forever “pillow’d upon [his] fair love’s ripening breast.”
“On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer”
John Keats
bright star [accept “Bright star, would I were as stedfast as thou art.”; accept North star; accept Polaris] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Poetry &gt;
In this novel, an emperor compares the growth of the title constructs to a game of chess. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about a discussion between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan about the title constructs.
Invisible Cities is by this Italian author of If on a winter’s night a traveler.
In If on a winter’s night a traveler, the Reader and Ludmilla go to the department of Bothno-Ugaric languages to talk to this expert on Cimmerian literature. This professor and the Cimbrian expert, Professor Galligani, get into an argument about the language used to write Leaning from the steep slope.
Invisible Cities [or Citta Invisibili]
Italo (Giovanni) Calvino (Mameli)
Uzzi-Tuzii [accept either underlined portion] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long Form Fiction &gt;
This story ends after Clovis reads a newspaper article about a man being killed by an elephant in the Dresden Zoological Garden. For 10 points each:
Name this short story that follows Cornelius Appin teaching a cat to talk, which results in the title cat hurling insults at the guests of a dinner party.
“Tobermory” appears in The Chronicles of Clovis, a short story collection by this author of “The Interlopers” and “The Open Window.”
Another story in The Chronicles of Clovis is titled for a hyena with this name that eats a gypsy child. In a story by J.D. Salinger, a girl with this name gives her father’s wristwatch to Sergeant X.
“Tobermory”
Saki [or Henry Hector Munro]
Esme [or “For Esme - with Love and Squalor”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short Form Fiction &gt;
Everybody loves Raymond. For 10 points each:
Raymond Carver is perhaps best known for this story, which revolves around the conversations of the couples Nick and Laura and Mel and Terri.
Raymond Chandler created Philip Marlowe, a character with this profession. Other literary characters with this profession include Sherlock Holmes.
Raymond Queneau (kuh-noh) co-founded this French literary movement. This movement’s style is exemplified in Georges Perec’s lipogrammatic novel A Void, which avoids using “e.”
“What We Talk About When We Talk About Love”
detective [or inspector; or private investigator; or sleuths; accept obvious synonyms]
Oulipo [or Ouvroir de Littérature Potentielle; or workshop of potential literature] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
Answer some questions about fetishes in literature. For 10 points each:
A missionary develops an unhealthy relationship with an idol known as Fetish in “The Renegade,” a story that appears in this author’s collection, Exile and the Kingdom.
In this collection’s story “Hands,” Adolph Myers is fired from his teaching position due to an unfortunate tendency to caress his students, leading him to change his name to Wing Biddlebaum. Wing is one of the residents of the title town of this Sherwood Anderson collection.
In this novel by J.G. Ballard, the protagonist becomes a follower of Dr. Robert Vaughan after he begins fetishizing car accidents.
Albert Camus
Winesburg, Ohio
Crash &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Miscellaneous Literature &gt;
The narrator of this story describes the shining golden eyes of the title creature that look as if they’re saying, “save us. Save us.” For 10 points each:
Name this story about a man who visits the Jardin de Plantes to see the title creatures, only to become one at the end.
“Axolotl” is by this Argentine author who encouraged readers to take various paths through his novel Hopscotch.
Julio Cortazar wrote a short story about the “Discontinuity of [these locations].” In Catcher in the Rye, Holden Caulfield wonders what happens to the ducks from an urban one of these locations in New York City.
“Axolotl”
Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]
park [accept Central Park; accept “Discontinuity of Parks] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
This character saves up money earned from working for a jeweller to buy a moving picture machine for his best friend. For 10 points each:
Name this long time companion of Spiros Antonopoulos. After Antonopoulos is confined to an asylum, this man, who is both deaf and mute, visits him until he dies.
John Singer appears in The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, a novel by this author of The Ballad of the Sad Cafe.
Carson McCullers accused this writer of To Kill a Mockingbird of “poaching on [her] literary preserves.” Her only other novel, Go Set a Watchman, was controversially released in 2016.
John Singer [accept either underlined part]
Carson McCullers
Harper Lee
Before entering this location, the speaker notes “As new trees are renewed when they bring forth new boughs, I was pure and prepared to climb unto the stars.” For 10 points each:
Name this location where the protagonist travels through nine spheres to reach Empyrean, where he encounters a giant rose and witnesses St. Bernard make a prayer to Mary.
Beatrice leads Dante Alighieri through paradise because this man, his previous guide, was a “virtuous pagan” and cannot enter heaven. He wrote the Aeneid.
In Canto III of the Inferno, Virgil leads Dante through this structure, which is inscribed with the message “abandon all hope, ye who enter here.”
paradise [or heaven; or Paradiso]
Virgil [or Publius Vergilius Maro]
the Gates of Hell [prompt on descriptive answers like “the entrance to Hell”]
Lisander is cursed to the “hell of impotence” in this writer’s poem “The Disappointment.” For 10 points each:
Name this Restoration-era female author of Oroonoko. In her play The Rover, Willmore falls in love with the convent-bound Hellena.
Aphra Behn’s translation of the Heroides was included in this writer’s collection of Ovid’s epistles. This author of Absalom and Achitophel mocked the “true blue Protestant poet” Thomas Shadwell in Mac Flecknoe.
Some scholars contend that Behn’s novel Oroonoko: A Royal Slave argues for this social cause. Harriet Beecher Stowe argued for this cause in her Civil War era novel Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Aphra Behn
John Dryden
abolition of slavery [or abolitionism; accept descriptive answers like ending slavery or ending the slave trade]
A work in this genre describes onions as “a joy to women.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre of over ninety works collected in the Exeter Book. A work in this genre named for Leiden begins with the line: “The wet ground, incredibly cold, first produced me from its innards.”
The Exeter Book riddles were written in this medieval language. Other works written in this language include the Dream of the Rood and Beowulf.
Most Old English poems, including Beowulf and the Exeter riddles, use this poetic device in lieu of rhyme. Like sibilance, this literary technique is a special form of consonance.
riddles
Old English [prompt on English; do not accept or prompt on Middle English]
alliteration
Characters in New Orleans, Paris, and Seattle attempt to create a perfect version of this substance in a Tim Robbins novel titled for its “Jitterbug” variety. For 10 points each:
Name this substance that also titles a novel by Patrick Süskind in which Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, an orphan in 18th-century France, begins murdering pubescent girls to create a perfect variety of it.
The narrator remarks “the smell and taste of things remain poised a long time, like souls” after one of these food items triggers involuntary memories at the opening of Marcel Proust’s In Search of Lost Time.
Gustav von Aschenbach detects the strong smell of disinfectant and learns of the cholera epidemic plaguing this Italian city in a Thomas Mann novel.
perfume [or Jitterbug Perfume or Perfume: The Story of a Murderer or Das Parfum]
a madeleine [prompt on “cake” or “cookie”]
Venice [or Death in Venice or Der Tod in Venedig]
Answer some questions about thematic connections between American and Canadian literature, for 10 points each:
Timothy Findley coined the name for an “Ontario” version of this genre which, in America, was exemplified in by the work of Carson McCullers and the short story “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
Naomi Nakane reconstructs her memory of the Canadian rendition of this historical event in Joy Kogawa’s Obasan. American characters named “Mother”and “Father” are separated during this event in a Julie Otsuka novel.
This author couldn’t drive into Canada because his poodle, Charley, didn’t have the right shots. He wrote The Grapes of Wrath.
Southern Gothic [accept Southern Ontario Gothic]
Japanese internment during World War II [prompt on World War II]
John Steinbeck
This character uses nonsense phrases like “quaquaquaqua” and “acacacacademy” in a monologue the critic Martin Esslin described as a “wild, schizophrenic word salad.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who mentions “the public works of Puncher and Wattmann” in the aforementioned monologue, which he delivers after another character commands him to “Think!”
Lucky appears in a play titled for this character. Because this character never actually appears during the play, some critics argue that he symbolizes God.
This Irish playwright, who wrote Waiting for Godot, rejected that analysis, claiming, “If by Godot I had meant God I would have said God, and not Godot.” He also wrote Endgame and Happy Days.
Lucky
Godot [or Waiting for Godot]
Samuel Beckett
The protagonist of this short story feels his identity “fading out into a grey impalpable world” as he thinks of the “lonely churchyard” where Michael Furey is buried. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Gabriel Conroy learns of his wife Mary’s youthful love affair with Michael Furey. It is the last and longest story collected in Dubliners.
This author included “The Dead” alongside “Araby” and “Ivy Day in the Committee Room” in his short story collection Dubliners.
At the end of “The Dead,” Gabriel Conroy notes that this substance is “general all over Ireland.” In the story’s last sentence, this substance is described “faintly falling” over “all the living and the dead.”
“The Dead”
James Joyce
snow [or snowflakes]
An author from this country who practiced “naked poetry” wrote “ I am this one / walking beside me whom I do not see” in the poem “I Am Not I.” For 10 points each:
Name this home country of the Andalusian-born Juan Ramón Jiménez. This country’s Baroque authors included the rival poets Luis de Góngora and Francisco de Quevedo.
Jiménez moved from Seville to Madrid at the behest of this Nicaraguan poet, who pioneered modernismo with his collection Azul… .
Dario was first championed by the critic Juan Valera, an author whose novel Pepita Jiménez is associated with the Spanish branch of this movement that depicted everyday life. French writers in this style, which is not Naturalism, included Stendhal and Honoré de Balzac.
Spain [or España]
Rubén Darío
realism [or realist literature]
The band Coyote Springs forms at one of these places in a novel named for their <em>Blues</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this type of place. These places are often the setting of works by Native American writers, such as Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine.
This author of Reservation Blues wrote about growing up on the Spokane Reservation in The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian. This author of The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven was accused of sexual harassment in 2018.
The contemporary Mojave poet of When my Brother was an Aztec has this last name. Another author of this surname wrote This is How You Lose Her and a novel about an overweight Dominican nerd.
Native American reservations
Sherman Alexie
Diaz [accept Natalie Diaz; accept Junot Diaz] (the novel alluded to in the second sentence is The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao)
Identify some common topics in contemporary nonfiction by women authors, for 10 points each:
In an essay, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie claimed that “we should all be” these people. Roxane Gay considers herself a “bad” one of these people because she likes rap music and the color pink.
Essayist Jill Lepore wrote about this historical figure’s sister Jane in her Book of Ages. In Ann Petry’s novel The Street, Lutie Johnson follows the ideals presented in this man’s essay “The Way to Wealth.”
In The Empathy Exams, Leslie Jamison describes performing this job for medical students. Jennifer Lawrence  asked why she made less in this profession than her male counterparts in a piece for Lena Dunham’s newsletter.
feminists
Benjamin Franklin
acting [or being an actor or actress]
The meaning of the word “hwæt” [“ha-WAT”], which opens the story of <em>Beowulf</em>, has long been debated by scholars. For 10 points each:
This Oxford scholar used the word “hwæt” so much his students thought it meant “quiet.” He argued that scholars should appreciate Beowulf as a literary work, not a historical one, in “The Monsters and the Critics.”
This Irish poet translated “hwæt” as a casual “so” in his “New Verse Translation” of Beowulf. His collection Death of a Naturalist includes a poem about an “old man” who “could handle a spade,” “Digging.”
C.K. Scott Moncrieff, who translated “hwæt” as “what” in his version of Beowulf, is better known for his English translations of literature in this language, including books by Proust and The Song of Roland.
J.R.R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Reuel Tolkien]
Seamus Heaney
French
This book is described as “a dialogue of self and soul” in a 1979 work of feminist criticism. For 10 points each:
Name this most famous novel by Charlotte Bronte. A derogatory name for its character Bertha Mason titles Gilbert and Gubar’s aforementioned feminist study of Victorian literature, The Madwoman in the Attic.
Madwoman in the Attic also discusses the work of a young Jane Austen, which is referred to using this term. This Latin-derived catch-all term for an author’s early works encompasses Austen’s Love and Freindship.
This novel is referred to as the “Bible of hell” in The Madwoman in the Attic. Nelly Dean relays the story of this novel to a disturbed Mr. Lockwood, who sees the ghost of one of its characters try to enter his room.
Jane Eyre
juvenilia (yes, “Freindship” is supposed to be misspelled)
Wuthering Heights (by Emily Bronte)
Danlola is commanded to give Kongi one of these plants during a festival named for them. For 10 points each:
Name this crop central to the play Kongi’s Harvest. In Arrow of God, a failed harvest of this crop convinces the people of Umuaru to embrace T.K. Winterbottom’s religion.
This Nigerian author of Kongi’s Harvest claimed “yams do not sprout amulets” in the poem “Abiku.” Olunde kills himself in place of his more wary father Elesin in this author’s play Death and the King’s Horseman.
The Yoruban word “abiku” refers to a dead one of these people. In Uzodinma Iweala’s novel Beasts of No Nation, Agu fights in the Sierra Leone Civil War despite being one of these people.
yams
Wole [“WAH-lay”] Soyinka
children [or child soldier; accept clear knowledge equivalents like kid or boy]
Amy Tan primarily writes in this language, as does the writer of <em>F.O.B</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this language. With Mandarin Chinese, this language titles a play about the mistranslation-hindered  travels of American businessman David Cavanaugh in Guiyang.
This author wrote the aforementioned works Chinglish and F.O.B. French diplomat Rene Gallimard finds out that his “Perfect Woman” is actually a male Communist spy in this playwright’s M. Butterfly.
In this Amy Tan novel, Lindo takes English classes at the First Chinese Baptist Church with the other three  members of the title mahjong playing organization.
English [or Chinglish]
David Henry Hwang
The Joy Luck Club
This author was prompted by a letter from Jean de Montreuil [“mon-TRAY”] to attack the misogynistic view of women presented by Jean de Meun’s <em>The Romance of the Rose</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who later responded to Meun in a work that details the accomplishments of over a hundred real and fictional women, titled The Book of the City of Ladies.
Pizan’s Book was inspired by this author’s On Famous Women. Marguerite of Navarre parodied this author in a work about five men and women who escape a flood by hiding and telling stories in an abbey in the Pyrenees.
Christine de Pizan’s works heavily critiqued the convention of the “courtly” form of this emotion. Ovid’s didactic treatise Ars Amatoria is typically translated as The Art of [this emotion].
Christine de Pizan
Giovanni Boccaccio (That Marguerite of Navarre work, The Heptameron, is a parody of Boccaccio’s Decameron)
love
. A poet from this country mourned her love Romelio Ureta in her <em>Sonnets of Death</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Gabriela Mistral. Another poet from this country observes “the night is shattered and the blue stars shiver in the distance” in a poem that begins “tonight I can write the saddest lines.”
This Chilean poet wrote “Tonight I Can Write the Saddest Lines.” In his collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, this poet laments an impending “hour of departure.”
In “The Heights of Macchu Picchu,” Neruda asks the land to give him “struggle,” “iron,” and these things. One of these geographical features appears in the title of a novel about the alcoholic British diplomat Geoffrey Firmin set on the Day of the Dead.
Chile
Pablo Neruda
volcanos [or Under the Volcano] (Under the Volcano was written by Malcolm Lowry)
In an extremely-short story titled “A Little Fable,” one of these creatures describes how “the whole world is growing smaller every day” shortly before dying. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of creature. In another story by the same author, one of these creatures named Josephine is worshipped for her ability to sing.
This author of “A Little Fable” and “Josephine the Singer” often featured non-human protagonists in his works, such as the “horrible vermin” that Gregor Samsa transforms into in his novella The Metamorphosis.
In Kafka’s story “Investigations of a Dog,” the title character faints in his own blood after choosing to do this. In another Kafka story, a panther replaces an “artist” who excels at performing this action after he loses popularity.
mouse [or mice]
Franz Kafka
fasting [or hunger; accept equivalent descriptive answers like not eating]
One of this author’s narrators is a fetus conceived on the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus’ voyage. For 10 points each:
Name this Mexican author of Christopher Unborn. A fictionalized version of Ambrose Bierce goes to Mexico to die in this author’s novel The Old Gringo.
Christopher Columbus marvels at “kingdoms naked in the trembling heart” in “Ave Maria,” a poem by an author with this surname. A different author with this last name wrote The Red Badge of Courage.
The title character of this author’s novel Annie John writes on a picture of Christopher Columbus, upsetting Miss Edward. A woman leaves the West Indies to be an au pair in this author’s novel Lucy.
Carlos Fuentes
Crane [accept Hart Crane; accept Stephen Crane]
Jamaica Kincaid
The protagonist of this novel shoots Tea Cake after he is bitten by a rabid dog. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the romances and life of Eatonville resident Janie Crawford. The events of this novel are narrated by Janie to Phoeby Watson as they sit on her back porch.
In Their Eyes Were Watching God, the changes undergone by this plant symbolize Janie’s awakening sexuality. This plant’s appearance changes from the “snowy virginity of bloom” to an “ecstatic shiver...creaming in every blossom.”
This Floridian wrote Their Eyes Were Watching God. Delia Jones watches her cruel husband Sykes die of a snakebite on his neck in this writer’s short story “Sweat.”
Their Eyes Were Watching God
the pear tree [prompt on partial answer]
Zora Neale Hurston
A character named after this author engages in a debate over the theology of laughter with William of Baskerville in Umberto Eco’s <em>The Name of the Rose</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this South American author of “The Garden of Forking Paths.” Like the antagonist of Eco’s novel, this real-life author was blind and obsessed with labyrinths.
Eco modeled William of Baskerville after this Arthur Conan Doyle-created detective, whose relationship with John Watson resembles the dynamic between William and Adso of Melk in Eco’s novel.
A retired beekeeper heavily implied to be Sherlock Holmes helps a Jewish refugee find a lost parrot in this man’s novel The Final Solution. This author won the Pulitzer Prize for a novel in which two Jewish boys create The Escapist.
Jorge Luis Borges
Sherlock Holmes [accept either underlined portion]
Michael Chabon (Chabon won a Pulitzer for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay)
Vladimir Bomgard, a member of this profession, reminisces about rural life in a Mikhail Bulgakov collection. For 10 points each:
Name this profession of Trefon Ivanitch, who lies about his relationship with Alexandra Andreyevna in an Ivan Turgenev story. This is also the profession of a title character who falls in love with Lara after serving in the Russian Civil War.
This Russian playwright of Uncle Vanya and The Cherry Orchard was also a practicing physician.
In this Chekhov story, Anna Sergeyevna visits Moscow on the pretense of seeing a doctor to carry on her affair with Dmitri Gurov, whom she met vacationing in Yalta.
doctors [or A Young Doctor’s Notebook or A Country Doctor’s Notebook or “The District Doctor” or Dr. Zhivago; prompt on poet]
Anton Chekhov
“The Lady with the Dog” [or “The Lady with the Lapdog” or “The Lady with the Little Dog”]
The narrator of a memoir waffles between reading this book and <em>Invitation to a Beheading</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novel discussed by Azar Nafisi in a book titled for Reading [it] in Tehran. Nafisi argues that the subject of this book is not the rape of Dolores Haze by “a dirty old man,” but “the confiscation of one individual’s life by another.”
This other Iranian author described falsely accusing an innocent man of harassment to distract attention from her lipstick in the graphic memoir Persepolis.
Iran’s first female author of the modern era, Simin Daneshvar, wrote about Zari’s fascination with this  religion’s martyr Hosein in Savushun. In Persepolis, Satrapi opposes a theocracy guided by this religion’s clerics.
Lolita [or Reading Lolita in Tehran]
Marji Satrapi
Shiite Islam
In <em>The Waste Land</em>, Eliot quotes this poet’s “Prothalamion,” asking the “Sweet Thames” to “run softly, till I end my song.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of Amoretti. His most famous work is an allegorical epic poem that represents Queen Elizabeth I as Gloriana.
The opening of Eliot’s The Waste Land parallels the “General Prologue” of this Geoffrey Chaucer book, which describes April’s “shoures soote” [“showers soot”]. This book’s characters include the Miller, the Franklin, and the Wife of Bath.
At the end of The Waste Land, Eliot describes this play’s character Hieronymo becoming “mad againe.” In this Thomas Kyd play, Hieronymo murders Lorenzo and Balthazar to avenge the death of his son.
Edmund Spenser (the allegorical epic poem The Faerie Queene)
The Canterbury Tales
The Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo is Mad Again
In Suzan-Lori Parks’ play <em>Topdog/Underdog</em>, a character named for this historical figure tries to get a job impersonating him. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, in a poem, is said to have “fallen cold and dead” after “the fearful trip is done.” In another poem, he is compared to a “powerful western fallen star” that is “lustrous with silver face in the night.”
This poet mourned Lincoln’s assassination in the poems “O Captain, my Captain!” and “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d.”
Abraham Lincoln’s son, Willie, lingers in purgatory in this author’s 2017 novel Lincoln in the Bardo. He wrote the short story collections Tenth of December and CivilWarLand in Bad Decline.
Abraham Lincoln
Walt Whitman [or Walter Whitman]
George Saunders
In a short story by this author, Marie names and talks to a rotting dead baby she discovers in the street. For 10 points each:
Name this Haitian author who included “Between the Pool and the Gardenias” in her collection Krik? Krak!. She chronicled Sophie Caco’s journey from Haiti to New York and back again in Breath, Eyes, Memory.
Alejo Carpentier wrote about a Haitian one of these people named Ti Noel in The Kingdom of this World. Harriet Jacobs and Olaudah Equiano both wrote narratives about their time as these people.
Aime Cesaire set his adaptation of this Shakespeare play in Haiti. Cesaire emphasized this play’s racial subtext by casting Prospero as white and Caliban as black.
Edwidge Danticat
slaves
The Tempest
This Pondicherry resident is named after Mamaji’s favorite French swimming pool. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of Yann Martel’s most famous novel. This adherent of Christianity, Islam, and Hinduism spends 227 days adrift in the Pacific Ocean with a tiger named Richard Parker.
“One: A Poem” are the first words of this poem when it is translated into Pilish [“PILE-ish”], a language in which the number of letters in each word of a poem spell out the digits of pi. This Edgar Allan Poe poem features a bird that croaks “nevermore.”
A poet from this country wrote an ode to the “admirable number pi,” but is better known for “Love at First Sight.”Another of its writers analyzed the effect of Stalinism on this country in The Captive Mind.
Piscine Patel [accept either underlined name; or Life of Pi]
“The Raven”
Poland (the first sentence refers to Wislawa Szymborska, while the second refers to Czesław Miłosz)
This author used the funds from his poetry collection <em>The Contemplations</em> to renovate the Hauteville House, where he lived during his self-imposed exile in Guernsey. For 10 points each:
Name this author who defended Romanticism in the preface to his play Cromwell. This playwright of Hernani was inspired by Guernsey’s fisherman to write Toilers of the Sea.
William Wordsworth gave his own defense of Romanticism in his preface to this poetry collection, which contains Wordsworth’s “Lines written above Tintern Abbey.”
Wordsworth and Hugo’s prefaces are collected in a Book of Prefaces by Alasdair Gray, a contemporary author from this country. This country’s greatest poet Robert Burns wrote an ode to a “lassie” from this country’s Highlands region.
Victor Hugo
Lyrical Ballads
Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom or U.K]
This monologue claims that “one man in his time plays many parts.” For 10 points each:
Name this monologue performed by the sad fool Jaques. In this speech, Jacques claims that life ends “sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything” in “second childishness and mere oblivion.” You can provide either the common name or the first few words of it.
The “Seven Ages of Man” monologue is delivered in this play set in the Forest of Arden. Rosalind disguises herself as a shepherd to woo Orlando in this Shakespeare play.
As You Like It is an example of this Shakespearean genre. Usually contrasted with tragedies and histories, plays in this genre tend to end with weddings.
the Seven Ages of Man speech [or the “All the world’s a stage” speech]
As You Like It
comedy [or comedies]
At the end of this novel, the protagonist sits outside his ex-lover’s apartment in Paris but decides not to enter, noting “it’s more real to me here then if I went up.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Newland Archer’s affair with Countess Ellen Olenska. In this novel, Newland’s plan to run away with the Countess is foiled when his wife May Welland becomes pregnant.
This author of The Age of Innocence wrote about the title Starkfield resident’s affection for Mattie Silver in Ethan Frome.
In Ethan Frome, Ethan and Mattie attempt to commit suicide in this manner. Ethan repeats “I know we can fetch it” while carrying out this action before seeing his wife Zenobia’s face.
The Age of Innocence
Edith Wharton
sledding into a tree [accept any answer mentioning sledding]
According to one novel, it “pisses God off” when you walk by this color in a field and don’t notice it. For 10 points each:
Name this color. This color reminds Celie of her romantic partner Shug Avery, which inspires her to decorate her home entirely in red and this color.
The Color Purple was written by this woman. She dedicated that novel’s sequel, Possessing the Secret of Joy, to the “blameless vulva.”
In the 1970s, Alice Walker edited and contributed content to this feminist magazine, which was co-founded by Gloria Steinem.
purple [or The Color Purple; do not accept or prompt on shades of purple like “violet”]
Alice Walker
Ms. magazine
This novel begins with the title servant asking the Smales family whether they would like some tea. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Bamford drives a yellow baakie. It ends with Maureen running towards a helicopter.
This Nobel laureate wrote July’s People. Jacobus finds a corpse on his farm in this author’s novel The Conservationist.
Nadine Gordimer hailed from this country, which banned July’s People after Gordimer spoke out against this country’s apartheid policy.
July’s People
Nadine Gordimer
Republic of South Africa
An Art Deco apartment complex in this city is the setting of Alaa al-Aswany’s novel <em>The Yacoubian Building</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this capital city. Palace Walk is the first work in a trilogy of novels set in this city by the author of Midaq Alley.
Egyptian author Naguib Mahfouz, who wrote the Cairo Trilogy, is the only author to have received the Nobel Prize in Literature for writing primarily in this language.
This British novelist wrote a Quartet of novels set in Egypt’s city of Alexandria. His brother Gerald wrote My Family and Other Animals, which chronicles this author’s eccentric upbringing in Corfu.
Cairo [accept the Cairo Trilogy]
Arabic
Lawrence Durrell
The poem “Benediction” describes a mother who curses God, wishing to have given birth to a “nest of vipers” rather than a person with this profession. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. In “The Albatross,” this profession is compared to a “prince of cloud and sky” whose “giant wings prevent him from walking.”
“Benediction” and “The Albatross” appear in The Flowers of Evil alongside “The Swan,” which reflects on this city’s modernization. The second section of The Flowers of Evil is titled for this city’s “scenes.”
This writer reflected on the role of the poet, as well as the modernization of Paris, throughout his Symbolist masterpiece The Flowers of Evil.
the poet [prompt on writer or author]
Paris
Charles Baudelaire
The elderly Alun Weaver consumes a lot of alcohol in this man’s novel <em>The Old Devils</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Angry Young Men. The medieval history professor Jim Dixon is fired at the end of his campus novel Lucky Jim.
Alan Sillitoe, another member of the Angry Young Men, is most famous for this short story, in which Smith loses a race on purpose to spite his school.
In Lucky Jim, Jim Dixon gives a drunken lecture about this “merrie” place. Amis, Sillitoe, and other members of the Angry Young Men set much of their work in this country..
Kingsley Amis [prompt on just Amis]
“The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner”
“Merrie England” [accept Great Britain or the United Kingdom]
This title character “sang his didn’t” and “danced his did” For 10 points each:
Name this poetic title character who lived in a “pretty how town.” “Women and men” both “little and small” don’t care for this character, whose life is the subject of a poem with the refrain “sun moon stars rain.”
This capitalization-adverse poet wrote “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” A “conscientious object-or” whose “warmest heart recoiled at war” appears in his poem “i sing of Olaf glad and big.”
This Imagist writer bet mutual friend Scofield Thayer that cummings would not be a successful poet. The speaker of her poem “Patterns” observes “squills and daffodils” before exclaiming “Christ! What are patterns for?”
anyone [or “anyone lived in a pretty how town”]
e. e. cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
Amy Lowell [prompt on Lowell]
This character has trouble sleeping because he hears “damned roaring” all night. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of a 1936 short story who is accidentally shot by his wife, Margot, during a safari in Africa.
This author of “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber” included his recurring character Nick Adams in stories like “Big Two-Hearted River” and “Indian Camp.”
In this Hemingway novella, the elderly fisherman Santiago muses about Joe DiMaggio as he attempts to catch a marlin.
Francis Macomber [accept either underlined part; or “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber”]
Ernest Hemingway
The Old Man and the Sea
In one of this man’s novels, the Communist spy Liz Gold is killed as she attempts to cross the Berlin Wall. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Spy Who Came in from the Cold. George Smiley works for a British intelligence group known as the Circus in his Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy.
In this Graham Greene novel, a vacuum cleaner salesman named James Wormold is roped into international spy shenanigans after he sells fake military intelligence to MI6.
This fictional British spy appears in several novels by Ian Fleming, including Casino Royale and From Russia with Love.
John le Carré [accept David John Moore Cromwell]
Our Man in Havana
James Bond [accept either underlined name; or 007 [“double-oh seven”]]
After being kicked out of the army, the title character of Jaroslav Hasek’s <em>The Good Soldier Svejk</em> makes a living by stealing these animals. For 10 points each:
Name this type of animal. The final section of a 1984 novel is titled for the dying “Smile” of a female one of these animals that Tereza gives the masculine name “Karenin.”
Both of the aforementioned novels were written in this European language, which was also used by playwright and president Václav Havel [“VAWT-slahv HUH-VELL”]. Ludvik Vaculik [“VAWT-soo-leek”] used this language to write the “Two Thousand Words” manifesto during the Prague Spring.
Tomas, Tereza, and their puppy Karenin escape the Soviet invasion of Prague in this Czech author’s novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
dogs
Czech
Milan Kundera
The speaker of this poem chortles “Callooh! Callay!” after his son uses a “vorpal blade” to slay a beast with “eyes of flame.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem from Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking Glass. It warns the reader to “beware the Jubjub bird” and “shun the frumious Bandersnatch” in addition to the fearsome title creature.
This protagonist of Through the Looking Glass encounters the Cheshire Cat and the Mad Hatter in a Carroll book about her Adventures in Wonderland.
This other poem from Through the Looking Glass describes ten crew members, including a Butcher who can only kill beavers and an actual Beaver, on their search for the title Boojum.
“Jabberwocky”
Alice [or Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland]
“The Hunting of the Snark (An Agony in 8 Fits)”
. This woman says that she has been “a stranger in [her] own land” because of her “father and brother.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who defies King Creon in order to give her brother Polynices the proper funeral rites. Haemon is devastated when this character hangs herself in a cave at the end of the play she appears in.
Antigone is one of this classical Greek playwright’s Theban plays, which also include Oedipus Rex and Oedipus at Colonus.
This twentieth century French playwright adapted Sophocles’ Antigone in a staging designed to parallel the Vichy France regime. In his Antigone, tragedy is defined as “a film without a sound track.”
Antigone [an-TIG-uh-nee]
Sophocles
Jean Anouilh [ah-noo-EEL]
This book classifies both a “Chinese brocade” and “a Chamberlain of the Sixth Rank” as “Splendid Things.” For 10 points each:
Name this medieval Japanese text. Written by lady-in-waiting Sei Shonagon, it contains lists of “Irritating Things” and “Pleasant Things.”
Authors like Ze’ami Motokiyo pioneered this form of medieval Japanese drama, similar to kabuki, in which short farces called kyogen are interspersed with more serious plays. Its performers typically wear masks.
This Lady Murasaki work, written during Japan’s Heian period, is often considered the first modern novel. The title character of this novel is a womanizing prince who falls in love with Lady Fujitsubo.
the Pillow Book [or Makura no Soshi]
Noh [or Nogaku]
Tale of Genji [or Genji-monogatari]
In the novel in which he appears, this character’s dialogue is written entirely in capital letters. For 10 points each:
Name this character who titles a novel narrated by John Wheelwright. He dies while protecting a group of Vietnamese children from a grenade at an airport.
A Prayer for Owen Meany was written by an author with this surname. A much earlier author with this surname wrote the short stories “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” and “Rip Van Winkle.”
In the novel, Owen kills Tabitha while taking part in this activity. An Ernest Thayer poem about this activity notes that “there was no joy in Mudville” after Cooney, Barrows, and Casey failed at this activity.
Owen Meany [prompt on Meany]
Irving [accept John Irving or Washington Irving]
baseball
Answer the following about how various authors have responded to <em>Don Quixote</em>, for 10 points each,
An essay by this author characterizes literary heroes as either Don Quixote or Hamlet depending on their decisiveness. A conflicted party guest is nicknamed the “Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District” in a story from this author’s Sportsman’s Sketches.
After learning of a false sequel to Don Quixote published by Fernández de Avellaneda, this actual author of Don Quixote repeatedly mocked Avellaneda in the novel’s second portion, published in 1615.
This member of Spain’s Generation of ‘98 attempted to interpret Don Quixote independently of Cervantes’ influence in his essay “Our Lord Don Quixote.” He’s better known for novels like Abel Sanchez and Niebla.
Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev
Miguel de Cervante
Miguel de Unamuno
The narrator of this poem opines that “there is no friend like a sister in calm or stormy weather.” For 10 points each:
Name this Christina Rossetti poem in which the sisters Laura and Lizzie are tempted by the fruit-selling title creatures, who chant “come buy, come buy!”
This author heavily edited his sister’s novel The Adventures of David Simple after it was first released. He is more famous for writing about Sophia Western’s foundling love in Tom Jones.
Love in a Cold Climate and The American Way of Death were written by the sisters Nancy and Jessica, who shared this surname. Nancy and Jessica’s sister Diana, who also had this surname, was married to the British fascist Oswald Mosley.
“Goblin Market”
Henry Fielding
Mitford sisters
This writer called Corinna of Tanagra a pig after she beat him in a poetry contest. For 10 points each:
Name this poet. Many of his Pythian Odes, like the one calling Hippocleas one of “Sparta’s warlike sons,” are dedicated to winners of athletic competitions.
This Cavalier poet called his love a “slug-a-bed” in “Corinna’s going a-Maying.” He tells some young women to “gather ye rosebuds while ye may” in the most famous poem from his Hesperides.
The death of the “prince of mimics” inspired this Roman to write a poem “On the Death of Corinna’s Parrot.” His Metamorphoses serves as a collection of mythical transformations.
Pindaros
Robert Herrick
Publius Ovidius Naso
In this dialogue, a character recounts dreaming of a woman who declared he would go to Phthia in three days. For 10 points each:
Name this dialogue in which a personification of the Laws of Athens explains that a person cannot reject an individual law without rejecting all of society’s laws.
In his namesake dialogue, Crito tries to convince this man to escape his jail cell, but is confused when he refuses. This teacher of Plato was sentenced to death for supposedly corrupting the youth of Athens.
Chronologically, Crito follows this dialogue in which Socrates notes his reputation as the gadfly of Athens. In this dialogue, Socrates recounts how the Oracle of Delphi proclaimed him the wisest man.
Crito
Socrates
Apology [or The Apology of Socrates]
This play’s title came about when an actor mistakenly used it in place of the line “A blonde schoolteacher.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Mr. and Mrs. Smith invite the Martins over for dinner. Later in this play, the Fire Chief arrives and recognizes the maid Mary as his first love.
The Bald Soprano is by this French-Romanian playwright. This author of The Rhinoceros included the recurring character Bérenger in his plays Exit the King and The Chairs.
Ionesco’s fellow absurdist, Tom Stoppard, wrote a pseudo-sequel to this Shakespeare play focusing on its characters Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Stoppard notably excludes this play’s most famous monologue, “To be, or not to be.”
The Bald Soprano [or La Cantatrice Chauve]
Eugène Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark]
The narrator of a short story believes that this object is hiding a “strange, provoking, formless sort of creature.” For 10 points each:
Name this “repellant, almost revolting” decoration that titles a Charlotte Perkins Gilman short story. The narrator is forced to look at this object because her husband John has prescribed her a “rest cure.”
] “The Yellow Wallpaper” was published in an 1891 issue of The New England Magazine alongside “The Herons of Elmwood,” a poem by this writer of “The Song of Hiawatha.”
Despite publishing works by Gilman and Longfellow, The New England Magazine never matched the success of this literary periodical, which was edited by William Dean Howells. Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle Hymn of the Republic” was initially published in this magazine.
“The Yellow Wallpaper” [prompt on partial answer]
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
The Atlantic Monthly
John Keats poems are more thematically similar to contemporary prose than you might think. For 10 points each:
Keats dedicated an ode to this season of “mellow fruitfulness,” “gourds,” and “apples.” An Ali Smith novel titled for this season describes how Elisabeth Demand’s friendship with 101-year-old Daniel Gluck changes during Brexit.
Charles Arrowby pursues Hartley in Iris Murdoch’s book titled for this place. Keats described this place’s “eternal whisperings,” and it lulls the speaker into “a quiet sleep” in John Masefield’s most famous poem.
This author read Keats’ letters while writing a novel about Lucy Honeychurch’s affair with George Emerson. His novel about the feuding Wilcox and Schlegel families inspired Zadie Smith’s On Beauty.
autumn [or “To Autumn”]
the sea [or The Sea, the Sea or “To the Sea” or “Sea-Fever”]
E.M. (Edward Morgan) Forster (On Beauty was inspired by Forster’s Howards End)
This character held moonlight picnics at a boathouse before she died at sea. For 10 points each:
Name this deceased wife of Maxim de Winter. This resident of Manderley never shared her cancer diagnosis with anyone, even her beloved maid Mrs. Danvers.
This granddaughter of the author of Trilby wrote Rebecca. Nat Hocken finds fifty dead birds on the floor of his children’s bedroom in her short story “The Birds.”
George du Maurier’s prejudiced novel Trilby emphasizes that the evil musician Svengali is of this religion. A moneylender of this religion named Shylock asks whether people of this religion have eyes in The Merchant of Venice.
Rebecca
Daphne du Maurier
Judaism [accept anything indicating being Jewish]
A poem titled for one of these fruits asks the reader to look at a “shining palace built upon the sand.” For 10 points each:
Name these fruits. In the first poem in a collection titled for [these fruits] From Thistles, the speaker’s candle gives a “lovely light” even though it “burns at both ends.”
This poet of the collection A Few Figs From Thistles wrote about a woman who dies weaving clothes for her freezing son in “The Ballad of the Harp Weaver.”
Millay’s poem “Euclid alone has looked upon Beauty bare” is an example of this fourteen-line poetic form written largely in iambic pentameter.
figs
Edna St. Vincent Millay
sonnets
Anaïs Nin dumped her husband to live with Henry Miller in a run-down apartment in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city where Nin and Miller were frequent guests of Gertrude Stein. “Lost Generation” writers like Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald congregated in this French city.
In need of money, Nin wrote many works in this genre that were compiled into the collections Delta of Venus and Little Birds. This genre, which Nin called “as indispensable as poetry,” also includes John Cleland’s Fanny Hill.
Nin published “An Unprofessional Study” of the works of this author, whose own erotic novel about Constance Reid’s affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors led Penguin Books to be tried for obscenity.
Paris
erotic literature [or erotica; accept pornography or pornographic literature]
D. H. Lawrence
Answer the following about science fiction by female authors, for 10 points each:
The residents of Gethen don’t have a fixed version of this concept in Ursula LeGuin’s novel The Left Hand of  Darkness. Virginia Woolf’s “A Room of One’s Own” imagines a writer who is similar to Shakespeare except for  this characteristic.
In Octavia Butler’s Kindred, Dana is transported from her apartment in California to this American region  during the antebellum era, where she is forced into slavery.
This author of the science fiction series Canopus in Argos is most famous for a novel featuring Anna Wulf’s  diary entries.
sex [accept gender]
the American South
Doris Lessing
This author’s novel <em>Save Me the Walt</em>z was partially inspired by her time as a ballet dancer. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, whose wish for her daughter to be a “beautiful little fool” was quoted by her husband in one novel. She inspired the character of Nicole Diver in her husband’s novel Tender is the Night.
Zelda’s husband F. Scott Fitzgerald is most famous for writing this Jazz Age novel, in which Nick Carraway attends the title character’s parties in West Egg.
In this other Fitzgerald novel, Princeton student and World War I veteran Amory Blaine laments “I know myself, but that is all” after his failed romance with Rosalind Connage, another character based on Zelda.
Zelda Fitzgerald [or Zelda Sayre]
The Great Gatsby
This Side of Paradise
Anne Carson argues that the first adjective preceding this character’s name refers to her “spangled mind” rather than her “iridescent throne.” For 10 points each:
Name this “deathless child of Zeus.” The speaker of the poem this figure appears in asks her to “abate [her] torment” and “fight as [her] comrade.”
This writer of the “Hymn to Aphrodite” and an “Ode to Anactoria” compared a woman to a “sweet apple” and “wild hyacinth flower” in the poem “One Girl.”
In a poem found in 2014, Sappho waits for her brother Charaxos to return from this conflict. Odysseus fights in this war in Homer’s Iliad.
Aphrodite [accept “Hymn to Aphrodite”; accept “Ode to Aphrodite”]
Sappho
Trojan War
According to this character, the city of Despina resembles a ship to those who approach it by camel and a camel to those who approach it by ship. For 10 points each:
Name this European who describes 55 fantastical locations, all of which are thinly veiled versions of Venice, in the novel Invisible Cities. This historical figure wrote an account of his life while imprisoned in Genoa.
Marco Polo converses with Kublai Khan in this Italian novelist’s Invisible Cities. You, the reader, encounter Ludmilla in this author’s novel If on a winter’s night a traveler.
Invisible Cities is interspersed with scenes in which Kublai and Marco Polo perform this activity in a magnolia garden. Aleksandr Luzhin is obsessed with this activity in a Vladimir Nabokov novel
Marco Polo
Italo Calvino
playing chess [accept any descriptive answer that mentions chess]
Joseph Roth set this night in Vienna, while a Edgar Allan Poe short story set during it contains an elaborate discussion of the Babbage Machine. For 10 points each:
Name this night. It is the night after Dunyazade attends her sister’s wedding to King Shahryar and the book  those characters appear in ends.
In the 1001 Nights, this woman puts off her marriage to King Shahryar by telling him a story each night.
1,001 children are born at midnight on Indian Indepence Day in this author’s novel Midnight’s Children. This author was forced to go into hiding after he received a fatwa for his novel The Satanic Verses.
the 1002nd night [prompt on descriptive answers like “the last night of the Arabian Nights” that do not specifically mention the number 1002; do not accept or prompt on the 1001st night]
Scheherazade
Salman Rushdie
In a celebrated sequence, the ghost of a man with this profession merges with the body of Professor Baum as Baum reads aloud his “testament.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession of Mabuse in a series of Fritz Lang films. In a 1921 film directed by Robert Wiene, a man with this profession named Caligari hires the sleepwalker Cesare to commit murders for him.
The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari revolutionized the design of these items, one of which displays the slanted word “Moloch!” during a factory explosion in Lang’s Metropolis. Joseph Farnham won the first and only Academy Award for the design of these things, which were made obsolete by the advent of “talkies.”
F. W. Murnau used black Gothic lettering for the intertitles of his film Nosferatu, which is an adaptation of this novel. Bela Lugosi played the title vampire of this Bram Stoker novel in a 1931 Tod Browning film.
doctors [or The Testament of Dr. Mabuse or The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari; prompt on criminal or similar answers]
intertitles [or title cards; prompt on titles; do not accept or prompt on “subtitles”]
Dracula
A poem about an altar “made of a heart and cemented with tears” belongs to this type of poetry. For 10 points each:
Name this type of poem, exemplified by George Herbert’s “The Altar.” Another Herbert poem, “Easter Wings,” uses the preconditions of this form of poetry to show a man’s faith becoming “thinne” and “poore.”
George Herbert belonged to this seventeenth century British literary movement. A more famous member of this movement imagined his blood mingled with that of his lover in “The Flea.”
Herbert described this entity as “an uncouth hideous thing.” Fellow metaphysical poet John Donne agreed with Herbert’s characterization, telling this entity to “be not proud” in his most famous Holy Sonnet.
concrete poems [accept shaped poems; prompt on answers mentioning that they resemble their subject]
metaphysical poets
death [accept “Death, be not proud”]
. A poem in this collection describes how a “Moving Finger writes, and, having writ, moves on.” For 10 points each:
Name this set of Persian quatrains by Omar Khayyam. It was translated into English by Edward Fitzgerald.
This Persian poet of the Masnavi, or Spiritual Couplets, frequently wrote about his love for his spiritual teacher, Shams-e-Tabrizi.
In the best-known work of the Persian poet Farid ud-Din Attar, a Conference of these animals crosses seven valleys to visit the Simorgh. They aren’t snakes, but Sinbad the Sailor encounters a mythical one of these animals in a valley that is covered in diamonds.
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Jalaluddin Rumi
birds [or Roc; accept more specific types of bird like eagles]
This character is based on a real-life person who titles a historical “memoir-novel” by Gatien de Courtilz de Sandras. For 10 points each:
Name this character who begins a novel by challenging Athos, Porthos, and Aramis to a duel individually after meeting them and insulting them.
D’Artagnan the doofus appears in a set of namesake “romances” by this French author, including Twenty Years After and The Three Musketeers.
At the opening of The Three Musketeers, D’Artagnan loses this valuable object given to him by his father. Monsieur de Treville writes him another one so that he can join an academy.
D’Artagnan
Alexandre Dumas père
letter of introduction [or letter of recommendation; prompt on letter] &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
This author supposedly refused to speak to the screenwriter Paul Schneider after he adapted the submarine movie <em>The Enemy Below</em> into the <em>Star Trek</em> episode “Balance of Terror.” For 10 points each:
Name this science fiction author whose works include a story depicting a society in which time is regulated by the state, “‘Repent, Harlequin!’ Said the Ticktockman.”
Ellison was originally commissioned to adapt this Russian-American author’s I, Robot to the screen, but he was dropped after he compared the intelligence of the head of Warner Brothers to an “artichoke.”
Ellison’s story “I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream” depicts a sentient and sadistic one of these things named AM. Arthur Clarke’s characters include a sentient one of these things from Urbana, Illinois.
Harlan Ellison
Isaac Asimov
computer [or artificial intelligence or AI] &lt;IJ, Misc Literature&gt;
Kurt Muller kills his houseguest Teck de Brancovis in Lillian Hellman’s <em>Watch on the Rhine</em>, a play set in this decade. For 10 points each:
Name this decade of American drama in which plays such as Arthur Laurents’s Home of the Brave dealt with struggles to re-incorporate soldiers returning from World War II into society.
An apple tree in this play is dedicated to the memory of Larry, a World War II pilot who has been missing for three years and only his mother, Kate, is still waiting for him.
Another play from the 1940s, Maxwell Anderson’s Lost in the Stars, is a musical adaptation of this novel, set to music by Kurt Weill (“vile”).
the 1940s
All My Sons
Cry, the Beloved Country &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
Upon realizing that he has been tricked by a group including the clown Feste, this character promises “I’ll be revenged on the whole pack of you.” For 10 points each:
Name this unpleasant steward who is tricked into wearing cross garters and smiling constantly after Maria writes a letter indicating that Olivia is in love with him.
Malvolio appears in this Shakespeare play, whose main plot involves the romances of the cross-dressing Viola (“VYE-uh-luh”) and her twin Sebastian.
Sir Toby Belch asks Malvolio, “Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more” of these two things. These goods also title a Somerset Maugham novel narrated by William Ashenden.
Malvolio
Twelfth Night, Or What You Will
cakes AND ale [accept in either order; accept Cakes and Ale, or The Skeleton in the Cupboard] &lt;TR, Drama&gt;
This poet wrote in “Afterimages” that they “inherited Jackson, Mississippi. / For my majority it gave me Emmett Till / his 15 years puffed out like bruises.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who coined the term “biomythography” to describe her autobiographical work Zami: A New Spelling of My Name.
This poet wrote of Emmett Till that his “eyes were a sea conch in which the head battle of your fifteen year old blood sparkled.” The author from Martinique was an exponent of négritude and wrote Notebook of a Return to My Native Land.
This author’s lines “Till was hung yesterday / for murder and rape with trimmings” refer not to Emmett Till, but to Till’s father Louis. This Imagist poet shared a prison cell in Italy with Louis Till, which inspired the previous segment of his Cantos.
Audre Lorde
Aimé Césaire
Ezra Pound &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
A fictitious translator from this country supposedly wrote a romance translated by William Marshal, and begins with Conrad, the son of Manfred, being crushed by a gigantic helmet. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country that is the setting of several novels by Ann Radcliffe, including one in which Emily St. Aubert is kidnapped and sent to a castle in this country.
William Marshal translated this novel by Horace Walpole, which ends with Theodore being made lord of the title fortification.
The Castle of Otranto is considered to be the first novel of this genre, characterized by castles and supernatural characters. Seven “horrid” novels in this genre play into the plot of Jane Austen’s Northanger Abbey.
Italy
The Castle of Otranto
Gothic literature [or Gothic novel] &lt;IJ, Other Fiction&gt;
After sleeping with his companion in this place’s gardens, the protagonist and his companion are thrown into a dungeon for several days in this building. For 10 points each:
Name this fortification from which the protagonist escapes by using a key called Promise on all of its locked doors. It is inhabited by a pair of married giants named Despair and Diffidence.
The protagonist and Hopeful get trapped in Doubting Castle in this allegory by 17th-century author John Bunyan, which is often considered to be the first English novel.
This man is the protagonist of Pilgrim’s Progress. His faithful companion, Faithful, is killed at Vanity Fair.
Doubting Castle
The Pilgrim’s Progress
Christian &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
A poem describes this man as someone “whose name in arms through Europe rings / Filling each mouth with envy, or with praise.” For 10 points each:
Name this man, the addressee of a poem that describes Isabel Thwaites leaving a nunnery after a section on the architecture of “Appleton House,” which is the “Work of no Forrain Architect.”
The poet of “Upon Appleton House” wrote “An Horatian Ode” upon this man’s return. That poem about this man describes his inability to “cease / In the inglorious arts of peace.”
Those poems about Cromwell and Fairfax were written by this poet of “To His Coy Mistress.”
Thomas Fairfax, 3rd Lord Fairfax of Cameron
Oliver Cromwell
Andrew Marvell &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
A character interprets a thunderstorm in this village as an omen of his impending death. For 10 points each:
Name this village where a man arrives and sits on a stone, which he is told is on ground sacred to the Furies.
This character arrives at Colonus in the second play of a trilogy by Sophocles. In the first play, he unwittingly kills his father Laius and sleeps with his mother Jocasta.
This daughter of Oedipus arrives on horseback at Colonus to inform Oedipus that his sons are fighting for control of Thebes. In a later play, she refuses to go with Antigone to bury their brother Polyneices.
Colonus
Oedipus Rex
Ismene &lt;WN, Drama&gt;
Robert Louis Stevenson said that this author “had ceased to be human” after this man wrote “King Pest,” a story in which two sea men drown the title figure and his retinue using a barrel of ale. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose other barrel-centric stories include one in which a man’s hair turns from jet black to white as he survives a shipwreck by holding onto a barrel.
That Edgar Allan Poe story is set in Norway and is titled for a “Descent” into this kind of whirlpool.
Fortunato buries Montresor alive at the end of this Edgar Allan Poe story titled for a barrel of wine.
Edgar Allan Poe
maelstrom [accept “A Descent into the Maelstrom”]
“The Cask of Amontillado” &lt;IJ, Short Fiction&gt;
The main female character of this novel is distressed to learn that a man named Daniel stole her husband’s rifle, and joined a group of fighters. For 10 points each:
Name this novel where the aforementioned gun theft causes Maureen to break down and run towards an unidentified helicopter, which may be commanded by the black people who violently overthrew the government.
This author fictionalized a violent end to apartheid in July’s People. Her other works include one depicting the Soweto Riots, Burger’s Daughter.
To reach the village of July’s people, Maureen and Bamford ride for three days in this yellow vehicle, which Bamford originally purchased for a hunting trip. Give the six-letter name by which this vehicle is frequently referred in the novel.
July’s People
Nadine Gordimer
bakkie &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
The female voice ends one of this author’s poems by declaring “You are Mine.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “may i feel said he” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town,” known for inventive use of punctuation and lack of capitalization.
In this cummings poem, one of the title characters discovers “a shell that sang so sweetly she couldn’t remember her troubles” while another is chased by a thing “which raced sideways while blowing bubbles.”
The last line of “maggie and milly and molly and may” says that “it’s always ourselves we find” in this place. A woman “sang beyond the genius” of this place in Wallace Stevens’s “The Idea of Order at Key West.”
ee cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
“maggie and milly and molly and may”
the sea [do not accept “ocean”] &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
A book by Wolfgang Iser argues that the “implied” form of this sort of person is necessary to “actualize” a text, since a text is incomplete without the action of this sort of person. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of person whose “response” to a work is the subject of several books by critics such as Stanley Fish.
Fish argues that the meaning of this kind of work is determined by sociological groups of readers that he calls “interpretative communities.” Archibald MacLeish wrote that this kind of work “should not mean, but be.”
This Italian author made the reader a character in his novel narrated in the second person, If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler.
reader [accept implied reader or reader response]
a poem [accept poetry]
Italo Calvino &lt;IJ, Misc Literature&gt;
The paintings at this site were primed with a mixture of clay, dung, and other materials. For 10 points each:
Name this site in Maharashtra, constructed starting in the 2nd century BC, whose murals are largely based on the Jataka tales.
The murals on the Ajanta Caves were painted on this type of surface. The earliest Indian art was in the form of petroglyphs, which, as their name indicates, were carved into this material.
The main character of Satyajit Ray’s film The Stranger is fascinated by a painting of one of these animals from the Cave of Altamira in Spain. One of these animals is painted with its hind legs crossed in the Lascaux (“lass-KOH”) Caves.
Ajanta Caves
rock [accept stones]
bison [do not accept or prompt on “buffalo”] &lt;WN, Painting&gt;
This author’s novella <em>From Me Flows What You Call Time</em> was selected for the Future Library, a project that collects one manuscript per year, and buries them, until printing them all in 2114. For 10 points each:
Name this author who depicted a “psychosoteric” war between “Horologists” and “Anchorites” in his 2014 novel The Bone Clocks.
Mitchell’s The Bone Clocks consists of six intertwined stories, as does this other novel by him, whose “outermost” narrative is “The Pacific Journal of Adam Ewing.” It was turned into an indie film in 2012.
Mitchell’s novel number9dream ends with a “blank chapter,” which may be an homage to this Japanese character from a Lady Murasaki novel, who dies in a blank chapter titled “Vanished into the Clouds.”
David Mitchell
Cloud Atlas
Genji [accept The Tale of Genji] &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
This play’s main characters meet all the children who are yet to be born in the Kingdom of the Future. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the fairy Bérylune helps the siblings Mytyl and Tyltyl search for happiness.
Maurice Maeterlinck’s (“mah-tair-LANK’s”) The Blue Bird exemplifies this literary movement that reacted against naturalism. Poets like Arthur Rimbaud (“ram-BOH”) and Paul Verlaine (“vair-LEN”) wrote highly metaphorical verse as part of this movement.
Maeterlinck and his fellow Belgian playwright Michel de Ghelderode (“mee-SHELL duh HELL-duh-RO-duh”) both wrote a number of plays involving marionettes, a type of these objects.
The Blue Bird [or L’Oiseau bleu]
Symbolism
puppets &lt;WN, Drama&gt;
In the sixth chapter of a novel, several of these things, including “Galatea” and “Cancioniero” are saved from destruction because a curate (“CURE-it”) knows who made them. For 10 points each:
Name these things. A housekeeper claims that a sorcerer riding on a cloud with his dragon took these things. In actuality, a curate is told the names of these things, and he decides which of them to save.
A priest and a barber burn the books of the title character of this novel by Miguel de Cervantes.
Later, Don Quixote accidentally injures this horse of his while tilting at windmills.
books [accept romances or manuscripts]
Don Quixote de la Mancha [accept El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha or The Ingenious Hidalgo Don Quixote of La Mancha]
Rocinante &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
The Victorian fantasy writer George MacDonald has influenced several other authors. For 10 points each:
After reading the manuscript of this work to his own children, George MacDonald praised it, but gave its author some ideas, such as adding the Cheshire Cat and the Mad Hatter as characters to it.
This writer featured MacDonald as a literary guide, akin to Virgil for Dante, in his visionary work The Great Divorce, which is set in a “grey town” that is “Hell.” His young adult novel The Last Battle has been criticized for misogyny.
MacDonald’s novel Phantastes incorporates a long passage that is inspired by this German writer’s novel Heinrich von Ofterdingen. This Romantic writer is better known for authoring the Hymns to the Night.
Alice in Wonderland [or Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland]
C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
Novalis [or Georg Friedrich von Hardenberg] &lt;IJ, Misc Literature&gt;
In a spin-off play, this character calls upon the couple Bev and Russ, asking them to reconsider leaving the house where their son Kenneth committed suicide. For 10 points each:
Name this character who offers the Younger family a deal to prevent them from moving into his all-white neighborhood in the original play.
Karl Lindner is a character in this play. Bev and Russ sell their home to the Younger family despite Karl’s objections in Bruce Norris’s play Clybourne Park, which is named after the neighborhood where this play is set.
This first African-American female author to have a play performed on Broadway wrote A Raisin in the Sun.
Karl Lindner [accept either name]
A Raisin in the Sun
Lorraine Hansberry &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
A poem set during this conflict describes how “rusty stakes like sceptres old” are used to “stay the flood of brutish men / Upon our brothers dear.” For 10 points each:
Identify this conflict during which Isaac Rosenberg wrote “Dead Man’s Dump.” Another poem written during this conflict asks “What passing bells for those who die as cattle?”
Dai Greatcoat is the main character of David Jones’s epic poem about World War I, In Parenthesis, which frequently references Y Gododdin (“uh gah-DAH-thin”), a poem written in the middle form of this language. This language was also used for the Mabinogion (“mah-bih-NOG-yun”).
This poet wrote of an impromptu stop at “Adlestrop” in a poem that concludes with an image of “all the birds / Of Oxfordshire and Gloucestershire.” This friend of Robert Frost was the inspiration for “The Road Not Taken.”
World War I [or The Great War or WWI]
Welsh [accept Middle Welsh]
(Philip) Edward Thomas &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
F. Scott Fitzgerald suggested that this novel end by saying that this world “breaks everyone,” and “those it does not break, it kills.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel, which was re-published in 2012 with all 47 alternate endings, including the Fitzgerald ending and an ending that states “Catherine died and you will die and I will die and that is all I can promise you.”
A Farewell to Arms was written by this friend of Fitzgerald’s and author of The Sun Also Rises.
In this Hemingway short story, Helen hears a hyena cry, signaling that Harry has died of gangrene.
A Farewell to Arms
Ernest Hemingway
“The Snows of Kilimanjaro” &lt;RR, Misc Literature&gt;
Durvasa starts this play’s central story when he places a curse on a woman who fails to greet him properly. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which a regal signet ring recovered from a fish allows Dushyanta to perform the title phenomenon and be reunited with his bride.
This author of The Cloud Messenger wrote The Recognition of Shakuntala.
Kalidasa wrote most, but not all, of The Recognition of Shakuntala in this language. This is the language in which many ancient Indian epics, such as the Mahabharata, were written.
The Recognition of Shakuntala
Kalidasa
Sanskrit &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
The first of these poems incorporates material from Nicander’s <em>Theriaca</em>, a didactic poem about serpent venom and its cures. For 10 points each:
Name this set of four poems that were published in 29 BC. They include a poem that describes various types of soils, and uses Eratosthenes’s division of five climate zones to describe the Earth.
The Georgics were written by this Latin poet, who began his masterpiece the Aeneid during the year he finished the Georgics.
Virgil calls this ruler, his patron, the “begetter of the harvest” in Georgics. This man and the great-uncle who adopted him had their lineages traced backed to Ascanius in the Aeneid.
Georgics [or Georgica]
Publius Virgil Maro
Augustus Caesar [or Octavianus] &lt;IJ, Poetry&gt;
One resident of the town affected by this event loses all of the animals that had bred rapidly during his marriage to Petra Cotes. For 10 points each:
Describe this occurrence that lasts for four years after a massacre of banana plantation workers and devastates a town regularly visited by Melquíades.
The rainstorm devastates Macondo, the home of the Buendía family in this magical realist novel by Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez.
This member of the Buendía family is known as “the Beauty” and spends much of the narrative folding laundry before ascending to heaven in a gale.
the rain in Macondo [accept storm or rainstorm; prompt on flood]
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad]
Remedios the Beauty &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
In Chapter 21, called “Troubles in the Fold – A Message,” a character uses a lancet to puncture the stomachs of these animals and relieve them of gas after they accidentally eat too much clover. For 10 points each:
Name these animals. In an earlier episode of the same novel, a bunch of these animals die when they go over a cliff, causing the bankruptcy of a major character.
Both of those episodes involving sheep and Gabriel Oak appear in this novel, in which Bathsheba Everdene rejects the suitors Sergeant Troy and Farmer Boldwood, and chooses to marry Gabriel.
Far From the Madding Crowd is an early novel by this Victorian author, whose earlier works include several romances set in Wessex, such as A Pair of Blue Eyes.
sheep
Far From the Madding Crowd
Thomas Hardy &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
Yael Farber’s acclaimed 2012 adaptation of this play is set in the Karoo desert of newly-post-apartheid South Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this play that opens with the title character telling her maid to poison Diana the dog and ends with her valet cutting the head off of a canary.
This Swedish playwright wrote Miss Julie.
In this Strindberg play, The Captain throws a burning lamp at his wife Laura, which she uses as evidence to have him committed to a mental institution and give her custody rights to their daughter Bertha.
Miss Julie
August Strindberg
The Father &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
On the 100th anniversary of Victor Hugo’s birth, this man, José-Maria de Heredia, and Léon Dierx founded the Society of French Poets. For 10 points each:
Name this Parnassian school poet whose “lofty idealism” won him the first Nobel Prize in Literature, outraging many who thought it should have gone to Leo Tolstoy.
The anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon (“proo-DAWN”) declared that this concept was theft in a tract asking “What Is” this concept. In that tract, he contrasted the right to this concept with the rights to liberty, equality, and security.
The late chef Paul Prudhomme helped popularized this style of cooking, which like Louisiana Creole cuisine is based around a “holy trinity” of bell peppers, onions and carrots. It is based on the cooking of deported Acadians.
Sully Prudhomme (“proo-DUM”) [or René François Armand Prudhomme]
property
Cajun cuisine &lt;Wang, Other Academic&gt;
A letter from one of these two people to the other puns that “our love [began as] Hans [Christian] Andersen and became Grimm.” For 10 points each:
Name these two people who collaborated on the libretto to Stravinsky’s The Rake’s Progress. One wrote “The Shield of Achilles,” and the other is his lover who introduced him to opera.
This Auden poem begins “in one of the dives on Fifty-Second Street,” referencing the area’s reputation as a haven for gay bars. This poem reflects on a “low dishonest decade” but concludes on a positive note, offering to “show an affirming flame.”
This other Auden poem calls the questions “Was he free? Was he happy?” “absurd” because if anything was wrong, the government “should certainly have heard.”
Wystan Hugh Auden AND Chester Kallman
“September 1, 1939”
“The Unknown Citizen” &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
This essay states that the “able governor” of the title region is not one who knows how to “govern the Germans or the French,” but one who knows the “elements that make up his own country.” For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century essay which claims that the struggle of Latin America is not “between civilization and barbarity, but between false erudition and Nature.” It argues against a form of government inspired by Europe.
“Our America” is an essay by this poet, who wrote the collection Versos Sencillos, or Simple Verses. That collection by him contains a poem adapted into the song “Guantanamera.”
Jose Martí died after the Ten Years War, which attempted to liberate this Spanish-speaking island country, his birthplace.
“Our America”
Jose Martí
Republic of Cuba &lt;IJ, Other Literature&gt;
This essay posits that “the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function.” For 10 points each:
Name this essay that begins “of course all life is a process of breaking down,” written about the author’s mental breakdown at 39. Part II of this essay, titled “Pasting It Together,” details how the author began to recover.
This author wrote “The Crack-Up,” as well as the novels This Side of Paradise and Tender is the Night.
This poet delivered a not-wholly-positive speech at Fitzgerald’s funeral, calling him a horse’s ass and an “old son-of-a-bitch,” in keeping with her reputation as a member of the “vicious circle” of the Algonquin Round Table.
“The Crack-Up”
Francis Scott Fitzgerald
Dorothy Parker &lt;RR, Misc Literature&gt;
One of this man’s books seeks the basic “structures” of stories by analyzing Balzac’s story “Zambinella.” For 10 points each:
Name this French post-structuralist and author of S/Z. He analyzed the structures of “modern myths” in his book Mythologies.
One of Barthes’s essays proclaims the “death of” this kind of person, which results in “the birth of the reader.” In literary theory, the intentional fallacy occurs when the thoughts of this person are given undue weight in analyzing a text.
This autobiography by Barthes claims that the critic needs to be interrogated like a text. It begins with the author “indulging himself” by showing the reader a set of pictures that he later analyzes.
Roland Barthes (“roh-LAWN BART”)
author [or The Death of the Author]
Roland Barthes by Roland Barthes [or Roland Barthes] &lt;IJ, Philosophy&gt;
In an essay for his web project “The Year of Magical Reading,” the critic Ted Gioia claims that this author is the first “magical realist.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who was put on trial for being a magician, an episode described in his A Discourse on Magic. He wrote a novel in which Lucius accidentally transforms himself into a donkey, The Golden Ass.
This man translated Apuleius’s The Golden Ass, and defended his “sedate” English translation as a way of conveying Apuleius’s “odd” Latin prose. His other Roman-inspired works include the novel I, Claudius.
Graves praised Apuleius for depicting the “progress of the rational soul toward intellectual love” in an extended sequence in The Golden Ass that centers on these two characters.
Lucius Apuleius Madaurensis
Robert Graves
Cupid AND Psyche [accept answers in either order; accept Eros in place of Psyche] &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
A “book” named for this dynasty was written by the author Ban Gu, who was one of the developers of the genre of <em>fu</em> poetic prose that became popular during this dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty. During its reign, the poets Sima Xiangru (“suh-mah sh’yong-roo”) and Su Wu formalized the tenets of Chinese verse that would be used by subsequent poets.
Unusually for Chinese poetry, the fu genre makes use of this technique in its prose. In English verse, the “sight” form of this technique is often used at the end of poetic lines, such as in the words “again” and “pain.”
One of the most important Han Dynasty collections is a collection of this many poems all written by anonymous authors. A book by Octavio Paz examines Wang Wei’s poetry in this many ways.
Han Dynasty
rhyme [or sight rhyme]
nineteen [or 19] &lt;IJ, Poetry&gt;
This play concludes with Aricie (“ah-ree-SEE”) being adopted by Thésée (“tay-ZAY”), or Theseus, since he had earlier invoked Neptune to curse his son. For 10 points each:
Identify this 17th-century adaptation of a work by Euripides in which the title stepmother admits her love to her stepson Hippolyte (“ee-po-LEET”), or Hippolytus.
This French author wrote the historical drama Phèdre. His other plays inspired by the classics include Britannicus.
Racine’s tragedy Phèdre was written in this French verse form, which consists of 12-syllable lines with a “caesura” (“suh-ZHUR-uh”), or break, that divides up the line itself.
Phèdre (“FED-ruh”)
Jean Racine
alexandrines &lt;IJ, Drama&gt;
In one fable, this animal spends all summer preparing for winter, and concludes the fable by yelling at the singing grasshopper. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of animal. In another ancient Greek fable, this kind of animal bites the leg of a fowler after a dove rescues him.
Those two stories about ants are attributed to this Greek author, a former slave who is known for his fables.
The character of Wart is changed into an ant in a chapter of this author’s novel The Once and Future King.
ant
Aesop
Terence Hanbury White [or T. H. White] &lt;IJ, Misc Literature&gt;
In George Chapman’s play <em>The Revenge of Bussy D’Ambois</em>, Clermont, the brother of Bussy, is compared to this Stoic author. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Roman author whose plays, such as Medea and Hercules Furens, provide the model of revenge tragedy, including the aforementioned play by George Chapman.
The cannibalism in Shakespeare’s revenge tragedy Titus Andronicus may be inspired by a scene in which the title character engages in cannibalism in this Seneca play.
Both of Seneca’s plays Thyestes and Medea drew on plays of the same name by this ancient Greek playwright.
Lucius Annaeus Seneca
Thyestes
Euripides &lt;IJ, Drama&gt;
Louisa May Alcott led a movement to boycott this text, and said its author should stop writing altogether if he cannot “find something better to our pure-minded lads and lasses.” For 10 points each:
Name this book that begins with a notice from the “chief of ordinance” stating “persons who attempt to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted… persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.”
After Huckleberry Finn was banned in Omaha, this author of the novel wrote a letter confiding to Gertrude Swain, a little girl, that he preferred her opinion on the novel than that of some “fifty clergymen.”
This literary critic stated that Huckleberry Finn’s humor was “not meant for women.” As a novelist, he wrote The Rise of Silas Lapham and A Traveller from Altruria.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn [accept Huck Finn]
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
William Dean Howells &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
A poem titled after this subject relates the story of Cinquez. For 10 points each:
Name this subject of a Robert Hayden poem that begins “Jesús, Estrella, Esperanza, Mercy.” Another poem on this subject reminds the reader that people “May be refin’d, and join th’ angelic train.”
The lines “Deep in the festering hold thy father lies” and “those are altar lights that were his eyes” from Robert Hayden’s poem “Middle Passage” reference this play’s song “full fathom five thy father lies.”
This poet wrote positively about the results of the Middle Passage in “On Being Brought From Africa to America.” She was the first female African-American poet to be published.
the middle passage [or “On Being Brought From Africa to America”; or descriptive equivalents]
The Tempest
Phillis Wheatley &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
This character, who says he drinks until he hears a “click” in his head, angrily claims that the one “great good true thing” he had in his life was his friendship with his football teammate Skipper. For 10 points each:
Name this character who expresses his disgust with the world’s “mendacity” to his father Big Daddy Pollitt in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof won a Pulitzer Prize for this author of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Throughout the play, Brick’s wife Maggie uses this insulting phrase to refer to the five horrible children of Brick’s brother Gooper and his wife Mae.
Brick Pollitt
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
no-neck monsters [prompt on partial answers like “no-necks”] &lt;RC, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about literary relationships between China and France, for 10 points each.
Dai Sijie (“DYE sudge-YEH”), a Chinese author who writes in French, wrote a novel whose title pairs “the little Chinese seamstress” with this French author of The Human Comedy.
This Chinese-born Nobel winner wrote the novel Soul Mountain and currently lives as an émigré in France.
The Chinese-born French writer Shan Sa wrote a novel about a girl who participates in this activity. The title character of a novel about this activity is angered by Otake, who is based on the real-life Minoru Kitani.
Honoré de Balzac
Gao Xingjian
go [accept The Girl Who Played Go or The Master of Go] &lt;WN, Misc Literature&gt;
A poem mentions wind and branches of this color before describing a woman with flesh and hair of this color dreaming on her balcony. For 10 points each:
Name this color that is mentioned twice in the opening line of the poem “Sleepwalking Romance.”
“Sleepwalking Romance” is by Federico García Lorca, a poet who was killed by Nationalists in 1936 during this war.
Lorca was a member of one of these literary groups named after the year 1927. Another of these groups, named after the year 1898, included poets like Antonio Machado.
green [accept “Green, how I want you green” or “Verde que te quiero verde”]
Spanish Civil War
generations [or generaciones] &lt;WN, Poetry&gt;
This poet suggested in a letter to Otis Phillips Lord that “no” is “the wildest word we consign to Language.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who declared “How frugal is the Chariot / That bears the Human Soul –” in “There is no Frigate like a Book.”
The literary history of negation is the subject of an Enrique Vila-Matas novel titled Bartleby &amp; Co. after this author’s character Bartleby, the Scrivener, who repeats the phrase “I would prefer not to.”
Perhaps the most emphatic literary negation occurs when this character exclaims “never, never, never, never, never. –” before dying.
Emily Dickinson
Herman Melville
King Lear &lt;JG, Misc Literature&gt;
William Dunlap wrote a history of theater in this country until 1832, a topic he was quite familiar with because he was one of the founders of this country’s theater. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Dunlap’s play André concerns Benedict Arnold’s betrayal of this country.
This play is the first to have been written by an American. In this play, Maria Van Rough must decide between her fiancé Billy Dimple and her suitor, Colonel Henry Manly.
Royall Tyler based The Contrast on this British play, which was the first play he ever saw. The contrast in this play is between the brothers Charles and Joseph Surface, and this play was written by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
United States of America [or USA]
The Contrast
The School for Scandal &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about works of fiction inspired by the lives of Jesus and his compatriots, for 10 points each.
In The Testament of Mary, this Irish author of Brooklyn imagined Mary being skeptical of the religion claims made by the friends of her rebellious son Jesus.
In this novel by Nikos Kazantzakis, Jesus is presented as a carpenter who builds crosses and struggles with the fact that he too will be crucified.
In Childhood of Jesus, this author loosely adapted the Gospel narrative to be about young Davíd fleeing his homeland with his adoptive father Simón. This South African wrote about David Lurie in Disgrace.
Colm Tóibín
The Last Temptation of Christ
J. M. Coetzee [or John Maxwell Coetzee] &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
This author wrote that “confronted with sudden disaster we all focus on how unremarkable the circumstances were in which the unthinkable occurred” in a memoir of grieving her husband’s death. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Year of Magical Thinking who satirized Vegas weddings in “Marrying Absurd,” which is part of the collection Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
This Didion collection begins with the statement “We tell ourselves stories in order to live.” In another entry in this collection, Didion describes taking her seven-year-old daughter to a Georgia O’Keeffe exhibition.
Didion is an author from this state. The title essay of “Slouching Towards Bethlehem” describes the debauchery of the children who flocked to this state during the hippie period of the 1960s.
Joan Didion
The White Album
California &lt;RR, Short Fiction&gt;
This play satirizes hastily-made revolutionary currencies with a story about notes with images of Simon Magus. For 10 points each:
Name this play whose second part concludes with the “Chorus Mysticus” stating that “the eternal feminine draws us to higher spheres.”
Faust is a two-part play by this German author of the Romantic novel The Sorrows of Young Werther.
In the first part of Goethe’s Faust, this woman beloved by Faust is depicted thinking of him while she is at her spinning wheel.
Faust [accept Faust Part II; do not accept or prompt on “Dr. Faustus”]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Gretchen [or Margarete or Margrethe] &lt;IJ, Drama&gt;
In a TV miniseries episode titled “Footprints of a Follower,” this character is shown being defeated by the 18-year-old protagonist. For 10 points each:
Name this wrestler, who for seven years was unbeaten throughout the towns from Umuofia to Mbaino. He has a feline nickname.
The defeat of Amalinze the Cat is used to illustrate the prowess of Okonkwo at the beginning of this novel by Chinua Achebe.
The first chapter of Things Fall Apart juxtaposes Okonkwo’s work ethic with that of this character, his lazy father, whose inaction brings shame to his family.
Amalinze the Cat [prompt on the Cat]
Things Fall Apart
Unoka &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
This poet’s most recent work of criticism is 2017’s <em>A Little Book on Form</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet whose collection Time and Materials opens with the two-line poem “Iowa, January,” which reads “In the long winter nights, a farmer’s dreams are narrow. Over and over, he enters the furrow.”
Hass has translated the work of the author of The Captive Mind, a Nobel-winning poet who wrote in this language. Hass has championed another Nobel-winning poet who wrote the collection Calling Out to Yeti in this language.
The chapter on odes in Hass’s A Little Book on Form includes an in-depth reading of this poet’s “Ode to a Nightingale.”
Robert Hass
Polish [or polski] (Those poets are Czesɫaw Miɫosz and Wisɫawa Szymborska.)
John Keats &lt;WN, Poetry&gt;
This man championed James Branch Cabell’s writing, contrasting him with the regionalism of the Nashville Agrarians. For 10 points each:
This German-American journalist and social critic co-founded the original American Mercury. He was the first to use the term “Scopes Monkey Trial” in his coverage of the event.
This Mencken essay derided the American South for literary stagnation, declaring that a poet is as rare in the South as an “oboe-player, a dry-point etcher or a metaphysician,” and comparing the intellectual vacuity to the vastness of the cosmos.
This Southern town eagerly accepted the criticism levied in the “Sahara.” The sociologist Howard Odum founded the University of North Carolina Press in this college town, where writers like Paul Green and Thomas Wolfe went to school.
H. L. Mencken [or Henry Louis Mencken]
“The Sahara of the Bozart”
Chapel Hill, North Carolina &lt;RR, Misc Literature&gt;
In <em>The Location of Culture</em>, Homi Bhabha states that this crime suggests the “momentous, if momentary, extinction of culture” to the woman it happens to. For 10 points each:
Name this crime allegedly committed by Dr. Aziz in the Marabar Caves. Mrs. Moore does not observe whether it happened or not due to her claustrophobia.
The events in the Marabar Caves and the subsequent trial of Dr. Aziz are depicted in this novel by E. M. Forster.
After Adela Quested recants her testimony, this character breaks off their engagement. This racist magistrate of Chandrapore seeks to increase his status in the British Raj.
the rape of Adela Quested by Dr. Aziz [accept sexual assault of Adela Quested or equivalents; prompt on rape or sexual assault with “of whom?”]
A Passage to India
Ronny Heaslop [accept either underlined part] &lt;IJ, Long Fiction&gt;
Samuel Taylor Coleridge stepped in for Reverend Joshua Toulmin so that Toulmin would be free to grieve his daughter who had suffered this fate. For 10 points each:
Name this fate that befalls the subject of a Stevie Smith poem that claims “oh, no no no, it was much too cold always.”
Hugh MacDiarmid described the image of John Davidson drowning at sea as “God through the wrong end of” a device used in this profession. A poem that is partly titled for this profession laments “how soon unaccountable I became tired and sick.”
Coleridge took over for Toulmin at his church in Taunton around the same time that this longest poem in Lyrical Ballads was published. In this poem, a voyage turns troublesome after the shooting of an albatross.
drowning [prompt on dying]
astronomers [or astronomy] (The device is a telescope.)
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
This character is killed by Tullus Aufidius after he leads an abortive revolt with the Volscians. For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespeare character who leads a revolt against his home city as revenge for his exile. The play in which he appears ends with his execution after his mother Volumnia persuades him to lay down arms.
Coriolanus is exiled from this city. In another Shakespeare play, a character delivers a funeral oration in this city by asking “friends” and “countrymen” to “lend me your ears.”
This scholar analyzes the disdain Coriolanus has for plebeian rule in the context of the election of 2016 in his newest book Tyrant. He’s also written the popular Shakespeare analysis The Will in the World.
Coriolanus [or Caius Marcius]
Rome
Stephen Greenblatt &lt;IJ, Drama&gt;
When a student asked Donald Hall for an assignment to help him improve as a poet, Hall gave him the assignment to “Be as good a poet as [this poet]. Take as long as you wish.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of a poem that starts with the longer line “Lord, who created man in wealth and store” before narrowing to two-word lines like “Most poor,” enabling the printed poem to resemble the title “Easter Wings.”
This poet dedicated his Holy Sonnets, which include one beginning “Death be not proud,” to George Herbert’s mother Magdalen.
George Herbert claims that the “immortal” variety of this concept is the “author of this great frame” in one of several poems titled for this concept. The speaker of a Donne poem says “’Twere profanation of our joys / to tell the laity of” this concept that is shared with the addressee.
George Herbert
John Donne
love &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
A character in this play suggests playing “a little game” in which “we pretend that we’re human beings, and that we’re actually alive.” For 10 points each:
Name this play about the difficult marriage of Jimmy and Alison Porter. This play led to the term “angry young men” to describe a group of writers including this play’s author, John Osborne.
In Look Back in Anger, Alison’s father Redfern has this title. The title character of Eugène Ionesco’s The Killer lures his victims by offering to show them a picture of a person with this title.
Colonel Pickering and Henry Higgins try to pass off the flower girl Eliza Doolittle as a duchess in this author’s play Pygmalion.
Look Back in Anger
colonel
George Bernard Shaw &lt;WN, Drama&gt;
In the novel <em>Hard to Be a God</em>, two authors with this last name created a spy called Anton is sent from Earth to investigate a planet with medieval levels of technology. For 10 points each:
Identify this last name. Two authors with this last name wrote a novel in which “Red” Schuhart is employed by scientists to illegally enter Zones and retrieve alien technology.
The Strugatsky brothers wrote in this language. Novy Mir was a literary journal for publishing works in this language in the Soviet Union.
In this Russian science-fiction novel, the Mephi attempt to destroy the Green Wall and bring down the One State. I-330 attempts to recruit the protagonist, D-503, to join the Mephi in this novel by Yevgeny Zamyatin.
Strugatsky [accept Boris and Arkady Strugatsky]
Russian
We [or My] &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
In Act III, this character tells her husband, “You have merely found it pleasant to be in love with me.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who affirms that she has a duty to herself above her husband and children before leaving Torvald.
Stella Adler cited Nora as an example of the independent woman in the plays of this author. In addition to Nora in A Doll’s House, he created Hedda Gabler.
This other Ibsen character is a governess at the title estate who attempts to win Jacob Rosmer, driving his wife Beata to suicide. The author of Black Lamb and Gray Falcon took her pen name from this character.
Nora Helmer
Henrik Ibsen
Rebecca West &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
A short story in second person by this author is divided into sections denoting years after the addressee was caught messaging 50 different girls by his fiancée. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Cheater’s Guide to Love,” the last story in his collection This Is How You Lose Her. In 2018, Zinzi Clemmons accused this MIT professor of sexual harassment.
Like Díaz, this long-time Nobel Prize aspirant who passed away in 2018 set many of his novels in New Jersey, including American Pastoral and Portnoy’s Complaint.
The publication of this collection spurred accusations of Roth being a self-hating Jew due to its story “Defender of the Faith,” in which Grossbart attempts to elicit favors from Sergeant Marx because they are both Jewish.
Junot Díaz
Philip Roth
Goodbye, Columbus &lt;RR, Short Fiction&gt;
In its first appearance, this phrase is preceded by the sentences “You swallowed everything, like distance. Like the sea, like time.” For 10 points each:
Give this declarative phrase that is repeated six times in a poem that begins “The memory of you emerges from the night around me.”
“In you everything sank!” is repeated in this poem, the last of a collection that also includes “Tonight I Can Write The Saddest Lines.”
“Song of Despair” is by this Chilean poet.
“in you everything sank!” [or “todo en ti fue naufragio!”; accept equivalent translations]
“Song of Despair” [or Canción desesperada]
Pablo Neruda &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
The protagonist smokes a joint while at the Supreme Court in the prologue to this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Paul Beatty in which the protagonist goes on trial for involuntarily enslaving Hominy Jenkins, an ex-star on Little Rascals. The protagonist of this novel attempts to resurrect his home neighborhood, the “agrarian ghetto” of Dickens.
Dickens is based off of the real-life Richland Farms, a neighborhood in Compton, a suburb of this California city. Nathanael West’s The Day of the Locust is set in this city.
The Sellout was the first American book to win this prize. George Saunders’s novel Lincoln in the Bardo was the 2017 winner of this literary prize.
The Sellout
Los Angeles [or LA]
Man Booker Prize &lt;RR, Long Fiction&gt;
Thomas de Quincey was a frequent guest at this location, and his opium scales are still on display here. For 10 points each:
Name this location in the English Lake District, where the poem “Home at Grasmere” was written. In this location, Mary and Sara Hutchinson re-copied poetry for publication because the handwriting of its initial poet was near-illegible.
This poet of “Home at Grasmere” lived at Dove Cottage. He composed many poems about the geography of the Lake District, including one that begins “I wandered lonely as a cloud,” “Daffodils.”
This long poem by Wordsworth begins by describing his childhood in the Lake District. It was intended to be part of a longer autobiographical and philosophical accounting called The Recluse, but that was never finished.
Dove Cottage [prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, Wordsworth’s home or Wordsworth’s cottage]
William Wordsworth
The Prelude &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
This section begins with a genealogy that traces a group of figures as descending from Priam. For 10 points each:
Name this section of a larger work that precedes one named for the “beguiling” of a king who disguises himself as Gangleri before encountering High, Just-as-High, and Third.
The stories in the Prose Edda were taken from those told by these old Norse court poets, similar to the bards of the British Isles. They made heavy use of poetic metaphors known as kennings.
Snorri Sturluson, the compiler of the Prose Edda, hailed from this island country home to many skalds. He served as the Speaker of this country’s still-extant parliament, the Althing.
the prologue to the Prose Edda
skalds
Iceland [or Ísland] &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
This book summarizes the beliefs of Kirilov from Dostoevsky’s <em>The Possessed</em> as “God does not exist: therefore, I am God.” For 10 points each:
Name this book that includes sections on “Don Juanism” and “Ephemeral Creation.” An essay from this book declares that the only serious philosophical problem is suicide, and that we must imagine the title figure happy.
The Myth of Sisyphus is a book by this philosopher who is best known for writing the philosophical novel The Stranger.
This other philosophical book by Camus claims that “to breathe is to judge” and says its title figure falls into the “inevitable logic of nihilism.”
The Myth of Sisyphus
Albert Camus
The Rebel &lt;YFL Philosophy&gt;
Answer the following about American literature set in New Jersey, for 10 points each.
This poet of “This is Just to Say” and “The Red Wheelbarrow” wrote Paterson, an epic poem about Paterson, New Jersey, in which he put forth his aphorism “no ideas but in things.”
One of Dr. Spielvogel’s patients is married to a former Miss New Jersey in this novel, which ends with Spielvogel giving his only line of dialogue: “Now vee may perhaps to begin. Yes?”
A protagonist of one of this author’s novels attends Rutgers University in New Jersey and encounters protective mongooses while avoiding the fukú curse. This author’s character Junior appears in This is How You Lose Her.
William Carlos Williams
Portnoy’s Complaint (by Philip Roth)
Junot Díaz (That novel is The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.) &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
The neighborhood is woken up by trumpets played as part of a mock funeral in this text’s most famous scene. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman novel by Petronius that depicts Trimalchio’s feast. Encolpius and Ascyltus fight for the teenage boy Giton in more ways than one throughout this book.
Encolpius debates schooling with a fellow teacher of this name at the beginning of the Satyricon. Another character of this name titles a play that opens with a watchman waiting for the beacon fire that will signal his return.
A passage from the Satyricon in which the Sibyl declares “I want to die” serves as the epigraph for this T. S. Eliot poem, which is dedicated to Ezra Pound and begins “April is the cruellest month.”
Satyricon liber [or Satyrica; or The Book of Satyrlike Adventures]
Agamemnon
“The Waste Land” &lt;OL Classical Literature&gt;
This author described a magazine photograph of the Czar and the President of France shaking hands in his story “Blumfeld, an Elderly Bachelor.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who frequently described photographs in his works, such as a magazine cutout of a woman in a fur boa that hangs in Gregor Samsa’s room in his novella The Metamorphosis.
A framed image depicting a bushman with a shield hangs in the room of this title character of a Kafka story. The ghost of this Roman hunter has wandered the seas in a ship ever since he died chasing a chamois.
A blurry photograph of a messenger practicing the high jump is described in this Kafka novel about K’s attempts to access the title place.
Franz Kafka
The Hunter Gracchus [prompt on the hunter]
The Castle [or Das Schloss] &lt;JB European Literature&gt; [NOTE: Read over first part answerline before continuing]
A book about this man consists of the author’s romanticized interpretation of notes his daughter Enid took while this man’s son Ben translated his words. For 10 points each:
Name this Lakota medicine man, the subject of a popular John Neihardt book that influenced New Age religious groups through its account of Plains Indian spirituality.
Black Elk describes the Sioux version of the Sun Dance rite in a Joseph Epes Brown book about him titled for the “sacred” one of these objects. Tribes such as the Lakota sealed peace treaties by smoking one of these objects.
In both Black Elk Speaks and The Sacred Pipe, Black Elk describes the inipi purification rite held in these structures. In them, water is poured over hot stones to create a heated atmosphere, often as part of a vision quest.
Black Elk
pipes [accept ceremonial pipes; accept peace pipes]
sweat lodges [accept anything mentioning a building and sweat, such as “sweat hut,” “sweat tipi,” “sweat bath,” etc.] &lt;JB Religion&gt;
<em>The Haunted Man and the Ghost’s Bargain</em> takes place during this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event. John Peerybingle suspects his wife Dot of cheating and Edward Plummer marries his sweetheart May during this event in The Cricket on the Hearth.
This family receives a Christmas turkey from the boss of their patriarch Bob in a novella by the author of The Cricket on the Hearth. Children in this family include Martha, Belinda, and the youngest, Tiny Tim.
This author wrote The Haunted Man and the Ghost’s Bargain and The Cricket on the Hearth, and created Ebenezer Scrooge in A Christmas Carol.
Christmas [or December 25]
Cratchit family
Charles John Huffam Dickens &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
This character bonds with his former coach Marty Tothero over dinner. For 10 points each:
Name this MagiPeeler salesman. He inherits a Toyota dealership in the third novel in which he appears, and lives with Skeeter and Jill before his house burns down in the second book of that series.
Rabbit Angstrom appears in a series written by this American author. The devilish Darryl Van Horne seduces three women in his novel The Witches of Eastwick.
Rabbit’s daughter Rebecca June dies in this way at the hands of her mother Janice in Rabbit, Run. Judy almost dies in this manner before her grandfather saves her in Rabbit at Rest.
Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom [accept either underlined name; prompt on Angstrom]
John Updike
drowning [accept word forms] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
Name some books by the Brontë sisters, for 10 points each.
This novel chronicles the tragic love affair of Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff. Lockwood narrates most of this novel from Thrushcross Grange.
In this novel, Lucy Snowe falls in love with Monsieur Paul Emmanuel in the title Belgian hamlet before he drowns on his way home from a North American plantation.
Helen Graham marries Gilbert Markham after her husband Arthur Huntingdon dies in this epistolary novel made up of letters to Jack Halford.
Wuthering Heights
Villette
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
The math teacher Hector falls in love with Griselda Webster during a production of this play in the first novel of Robertson Davies’s Salterton Trilogy. For 10 points each:
Name this play that one-time theater director Felix tries to stage at a prison in the 2016 novel Hag-Seed.
An author with this first name and the surname Laurence rewrote The Tempest in her novel The Diviners. A compatriot of that author that also has this given name wrote Hag-Seed and the dystopian novel Oryx and Crake.
Robertson Davies, Margaret Laurence, and Margaret Atwood are among the authors from this country to write Tempest-inspired novels. Timothy Findley coined the name of this country’s “Southern Ontario Gothic” genre.
The Tempest
Margaret [accept Margaret Laurence or Margaret Atwood]
Canada &lt;JB World/Classical/Other Lit&gt;
In a letter to George Sand, this author wrote “Axiom: Hatred of Bourgeois is the beginning of all virtue.” For 10 points each:
Name this French author known for his obsessive dislike of bourgeois culture. His other obsessions, including his idea of “le mot juste” [“luh moh joost”], slowed his production of novels such as Salambo.
Julian Barnes described Madame Bovary’s last sentence as the “bourgeois apotheosis” of the pharmacist Homais, since it states that he had just received this distinction. Ironically, Flaubert himself received it less than a decade after the novel’s publication.
Flaubert listed bourgeois cliches in a book of this format whose title calls them “received ideas.” Samuel Johnson compiled a book of this type for the English language.
Gustave Flaubert
receiving the cross of the Legion of Honour [or being made a chevalier in the Legion of Honour; accept anything involving the Legion of Honour or la Légion d’honneur]
dictionary &lt;JB European Literature&gt;
Name some playwrights characterized by Martin Esslin as members of the Theater of the Absurd. For 10 points each:
Characters sit under a handless clock and ask the time in this writer’s play The Parody. He also featured a pinball machine in his play Ping Pong.
This writer is best known for a play in which Vladimir and Estragon repeatedly say there is “nothing to be done” while they are Waiting for Godot. This Irishman also wrote about Hamm’s parents and servant in Endgame.
This man wrote an “epic of masturbation” entitled Our Lady of the Flowers, along with a play about Claire and Solange pretending to kill their Madame, who they work for as The Maids.
Arthur Adamov
Samuel Beckett
Jean Genet &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
Answer the following about the work of novelist William Golding, for 10 points each.
This most famous book by Golding follows Piggy, Ralph, and their fellow schoolboys as they wreak havoc on a deserted island in the wake of a plane crash. This novel’s title comes from a rotting pig head.
This Golding novel mostly takes place after its protagonist’s death. Its title character is a navy officer who believes himself to be the sole survivor of the sinking of the Wildebeest.
Golding’s first full-length non-fiction book was a journal he took on a cruise in this country at the age of 75. This country’s ancient language was used to write “The Tale of Sinuhe” and the Book of the Dead.
Lord of the Flies
Pincher Martin
Ancient Egypt &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
At the end of John Steinbeck’s “The Chrysanthemums,” Elisa surprises her husband by asking about the bloodiness of this sport. For 10 points each:
Name this combat sport, the subject of A. J. Liebling’s essay collection The Sweet Science. The 1975 book The Fight follows its star Muhammad Ali.
This author of The Fight sparred with boxing champ Jose Torres on The Dick Cavett Show in 1971, the same year he feuded with Gore Vidal on the show. He also wrote the novel The Executioner’s Song.
This author wrote what is likely the best-known work of non-fiction about boxing, her essay collection On Boxing. Connie encounters the predator Arnold Friend in this prolific novelist’s story “Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?”
boxing
Norman Mailer
Joyce Carol Oates &lt;JB Other Lit&gt;
This character is said to feed children’s eyes to his own offspring on the moon. For 10 points each:
Name this character. He titles a story in which Nathaniel conflates him with Coppelius and Giuseppe Coppola, both of whom are also obsessed with eyes and are revealed to be the same person.
This German writer of “The Sandman” included the clockmaker Drosselmeyer in his story “The Nutcracker and the Mouse King.” Offenbach adapted some of his stories into an opera.
Nathaniel falls in love with this automaton in “The Sandman.” She is introduced as the beautiful daughter of Professor Spalanzani, although her beauty may be marred by her inability to say anything but “Ah, Ah!”
the Sandman [or der Sandmann]
Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann
Olympia &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
This genre includes books written by a woman who used the pseudonym Linda Brent. For 10 points each:
Name this genre of American literature that includes the work of Harriet Ann Jacobs, Henry Box Brown, and Frederick Douglas. It includes memoirs written by men and women escaping captivity.
This Nigeria-born author’s “Interesting Narrative” is addressed to the British parliament, and eventually helped influence it to the slave trade. Lieutenant Michael Pascal referred to him as Gustavus Vassa.
This man is included in a number of slave narratives by Frederick Douglass. Douglass won a fight with this sadistic farmer after being taken to him by the Auld family.
slave narratives [accept anything indicating the memoirs or autobiographies of slaves; do not accept “captivity narratives”]
Olaudah Equiano
Edward Covey [or Mr. Covey] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
The “psychological study of a certain young Parisian” read by this novel’s protagonist is probably Joris-Karl Huysmans’s [“weese-mawns’s”] novel <em>À rebours</em> [“ah ruh-boor”]. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose protagonist is sent a decadent “yellow book” by Lord Henry along with a newspaper clipping about the suicide of the actress Sibyl Vane.
This associate of the publishers of the Yellow Book journal described that “yellow book” in The Picture of Dorian Gray. This gay author of The Importance of Being Earnest was put on trial for “gross indecency.”
Marius and Flavian rhapsodize over a beautiful “golden book,” Apuleius’s The Golden Ass, in this earlier Victorian novelist’s Marius the Epicurean. His book The Renaissance was a major influence on the aesthetic movement.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
Oscar Wilde
Walter Pater &lt;OL British Lit&gt;
This object causes men to exclaim “Nay! ’Tis too much! He plays a joke on us!” For 10 points each:
Name this object. The baker Ragueneau is the first to comment on this object in the play in which it appears, and Christian de Neuvillette repeatedly interrupts a speech by this object’s owner with mention of this large object.
The author of Cyrano de Bergerac, Edmond Rostand, also penned L’Aiglon, a play about this man’s son. Pierre Bezukhov hopes to kill this man in War and Peace, which is set during the wars named for him.
This term repeated throughout Cyrano de Bergerac literally refers to the white feathers on Cyrano’s cap. Cyrano’s last word before he dies is this one, which he claims is “something I’ll take unstained out of this world.”
Cyrano de Bergerac’s nose [accept either underlined name; prompt on partial answer]
Napoleon Bonaparte
panache &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
This novel is followed by <em>Mark, the Match Boy</em> and <em>Ben, the Luggage Boy</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this most famous rags-to-riches story of Horatio Alger. It chronicles a frugal bootblack’s rise above his station after saving James Rockwell’s drowning son.
Dick compares himself to this character after trying on a new suit, claiming “he’ll be changed into a fairy princess.” In an Anne Sexton poem, this woman’s sisters cut off their heels and toes so they can wear a shoe.
This author’s novel The Rise of Silas Lapham reverses Alger’s rags-to-riches narrative with a paint salesman who loses his fortune. This author also wrote A Hazard of New Fortunes.
Ragged Dick, or Street Life in New York with the Boot Blacks
Cinderella
William Dean Howells &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
A poet with this attribute, Bob McCorkle, kidnaps the infant daughter of Christopher Chubb in a Peter Carey novel. For 10 points each:
Name this notable feature of a poet who wrote of closing his “inanimate lids” to see the “colourful spires / And painted roofs” in “Dürer: Innsbruck, 1495,” one of the poems of his published in Angry Penguins magazine.
That poet, Ern Malley, was used to parody modernism by James McAuley and Harold Stewart, authors from this country. My Life as a Fake, a novel inspired by the hoax, was written by this country’s author Peter Carey.
Malley wrote a “Colloquy with [this poet]” asking why he didn’t finish Hyperion. This subject of Shelley’s “Adonais” also wrote “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
he is not real [or a hoax; accept equivalents]
Australia
John Keats &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
This novella ends with a passage describing a chain gang entitled “The Twelve Mortal Men.” For 10 points each:
Name this novella about Miss Amelia Evans. Marvin Macy takes advantage of Cousin Lymon in this novella.
The Ballad of the Sad Cafe was written by this Southern American author best-known for a novel about a town’s interactions with the deaf-mute John Singer.
In The Ballad of the Sad Cafe, Cousin Lymon has this trait. Victor Hugo created a character with this trait who is crowned the Pope of Fools and works as a bellringer at Notre-Dame.
The Ballad of the Sad Cafe
Carson McCullers (That novel is The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.)
he is a hunchback [accept clear equivalents] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
A cake shaped like this one of these buildings is eaten at the end of <em>Billiards at Half Past Nine</em>, in which three successive generations of the Faehmel family build, destroy, and rebuild it. For 10 points each:
Name this type of building. People living in this type of building follow the rule “do what thou wilt” in Rabelais’s Gargantua and Pantagruel.
In Billiards at Half Past Nine, the bellboy Hugo is repeatedly compared to a “little” one of these animals. William Blake contrasted this animal with “The Tyger” in his Songs of Innocence and Experience.
In some translations of the novel, Robert Faehmel classifies supporters of this party as “buffaloes.” The title figure is compared to a member of this party in Sylvia Plath’s “Daddy,” which says he is “not God but a swastika.”
abbeys [prompt on monasteries or equivalents]
lambs
Nazi Party &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
Thomas Rymer called this play a “bloody farce” in <em>A Short View of Tragedy</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespearean tragedy in which Desdemona is suspected of an affair with Cassio by the title “Moor of Venice.” Her husband’s strongest piece of evidence is a misplaced handkerchief.
Bento Santiago believes his wife Capitu has cheated on him with Escobar in this novel, an adaptation of Othello.
This Brazilian author of Dom Casmurro also wrote The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Philosopher or Dog? He translated Oliver Twist into Portuguese.
The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice
Dom Casmurro
Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis [prompt on Machado or de Assis] &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
Name some authors who wrote fiction involving the evacuation of children from London during the Blitz, for 10 points each.
The Pevensie children are sent to Professor Digory Kirk’s home at the opening of this author’s The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, the first entry in his Chronicles of Narnia series.
Basil Seal takes bribes from people who don’t want to billet evacuees in their country homes in this author’s novel Put Out More Flags. This author used a phrase from “The Waste Land” to title his novel A Handful of Dust.
Two evacuees, the girls Penny and Primrose, see the Loathly Worm in this author’s story “The Thing in the Forest.” This sister of Margaret Drabble wrote about two academics studying a fictional pair of Romantic poets in her novel Possession.
C. S. Lewis
Evelyn Waugh
A. S. Byatt &lt;JB British Literature&gt;
Metaphorical meaning in poems from this country is concealed through <em>Säm əna Wärq</em> [“sem uh-nah werk”]. For 10 points each:
Name this home of Qəne [“ken-AY”] poetry. Paul Laurence Dunbar told those taken from this country that “thy name is writ on Glory’s scroll / in characters of fire” in one of the many American poems that uses this country’s name to refer to the entire African continent.
Some critics argue that this Ancient Greek writer was originally from Ethiopia. His fables include “The Fox and the Grapes,” “The Ant and the Grasshopper,” and “The Tortoise and the Hare.”
In Dinaw Mengistu’s novel All Our Names, an Ethiopian foreign exchange student with this name meets the social worker Helen. Reverend Brown gives Nwoye this name in Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart.
Ethiopia
Aesop
Isaac &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
This poet tells his “luve” that his affection is like a “red, red rose.” For 10 points each:
Name this Scottish poet of “To a Mouse” and “Tam O’Shanter.” He might be best known for his New Year’s hymn “Auld Lang Syne.”
A Robert Herrick poem addressed to these people tells them to “gather ye rosebuds while ye may,” since “this same flower that smiles today / tomorrow will be dying.”
In the opening speech of Richard III, which takes place during the War of the Roses, Gloucester [“GLOSS-ter”] notes that “the winter of our discontent” has been made “glorious summer” by this figure, whose name includes a homophone.
Robert Burns
virgins
this sun of York [prompt on Edward IV] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
While serving as this author’s personal secretary in the last years of his life, Johann Peter Eckermann authored some “Conversations” with him. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the vaguely scientific treatises Metamorphosis of Plants and Theory of Colours, who also pioneered the bildungsroman in his Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship.
Eckermann’s Conversations with Goethe belongs to a genre of remarks by famous people in informal settings, which is named for this piece of furniture. Erasmus was one of the first writers to lay out a type of “manners” named for this piece of furniture.
The women of Jena call Goethe “His Ancient and Divine Majesty” in Penelope Fitzgerald’s novel The Blue Flower, which is about this author. This author wrote about Heinrich’s quest for a blue flower in an incomplete novel.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
tables [or table talk; or table manners]
Novalis [or Georg Philipp Friedrich “Fritz” Freiherr von Hardenberg] &lt;JB European Lit&gt;
At the end of the play in which she appears, this character sobs while repeating “We’re free.” For 10 points each:
Name this mother of Biff and Happy. She never discovers her husband’s affair with “the Woman,” despite his hallucinations of her and his uncle Ben.
The Loman family appears in this play by Arthur Miller. Willy Loman describes the title event happening to Dave Singleman, who “drummed merchandise in thirty-one states” before passing away in his green velvet slippers.
Death of a Salesman is written in two acts and this section. Linda shares that she had paid off her family’s mortgage shortly before attending Willy’s funeral in this section of the play.
Linda Loman [prompt on Loman]
Death of a Salesman
“Requiem” [prompt on epilogue] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this story enjoys browsing a dead priest’s library in his spare time. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which the lovestruck narrator decides against buying something for Mangan’s sister from a bazaar.
“Araby” is included in this author’s short story collection Dubliners. He also wrote about Gabriel Conroy watching snow fall “upon all the living and the dead” in “The Dead.”
In “Araby,” the narrator stumbles upon this man’s novel The Abbot. Characters in his “Boat Song” repeatedly exclaim “Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! Ieroe!” as they “row for the pride of the Highlands.”
“Araby”
James Joyce
Sir Walter Scott &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
Luster upsets this character by taking him to a golf course. For 10 points each:
Name this disabled member of the Compson family. He is devastated by the marriage of his sister, who “smelled like trees,” and the child she had with Dalton Ames. He narrates the first part of a novel.
Description acceptable. Benjy’s sister Caddy does this while playing in a tree and creek, symbolizing her impurity. Her brothers Jason and Quentin, both weirdly obsessed with her virginity, chastise her for doing this.
Both Benjy and Caddy appear in The Sound and the Fury, a novel by this author. This author set much of his work about the Compson family in Yoknapatawpha County.
Benjamin Compson [or Benjy]
muddying her drawers [or anything that suggests getting her underwear dirty; prompt on less specific clothing]
William Faulkner &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
Minou’s solicitation of the ghost-loving mystic Fela irritates her aunt Dede in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel set in the Dominican Republic, in which the aspiring lawyer Miranda and devout mother Patria are imprisoned before dying in a staged car accident.
Vladimir Nabokov describes hunting butterflies as “a pretty boy in knickerbockers” in this memoir. The fifth chapter of this book is titled “Mademoiselle O.”
“Chameleon butterflies” provide clothing and food for Ayesha in this Salman Rushdie novel. Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa in response to this novel.
In the Time of the Butterflies
Speak, Memory
The Satanic Verses &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
This document claimed that Romanticism has “abdicated its heroic boldness” and fallen into “senile decay.” For 10 points each:
Name this essay by Jean Moréas that championed its namesake movement, which it claimed wanted to “clothe the Ideal in a perceptible form.”
This French poet is named by Moréas as one of the leading Symbolist poets. His works include an unfinished poem for the “tomb” of his son Anatole and the sprawling “A Throw of the Dice Will Never Abolish Chance.”
Barbara Johnson claims that Mallarmé’s influence was critical to Roland Barthes’s [“roh-LAWN BART’s”] theory of the “death” of this figure. That theory argues that a text should be interpreted without reference to this person’s intentions or context.
Symbolist Manifesto [or “Le Symbolisme”]
Stéphane Mallarmé
the author [or l’auteur] &lt;JK European Literature&gt;
In a 1967 essay, Carolyn Heilbrun argued that generations of scholars had mischaracterized this woman as an adultress. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who is the subject of Howard Barker’s play The Cry. Baldwin Maxwell argued that she has little initiative, as shown by her responding “Alack, I had forgot,” when her son says he must go to England.
Gertrude has been treated by many critics as less important to the plot of Hamlet than this other woman, with whom Hamlet is in love. She goes mad and commits suicide after Hamlet kills her father, Polonius.
At the end of his “to be or not to be” speech, Hamlet orders Ophelia, “Get thee to” one of these places. At the time, this term was also popular slang for a brothel.
Gertrude [prompt on Hamlet’s mother]
Ophelia
a nunnery [prompt on convent] &lt;JK British Literature&gt;
This author’s “Poem Without a Hero” was originally dedicated to those who had died at Leningrad. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian poet, who wrote “Seventeen months I’ve pleaded / for you to come home” in “Requiem,” a poem about Stalin’s Great Purge.
Though this other Russian author was married, he proposed to Akhmatova several times. The CIA embarked on a campaign to disseminate this author’s Doctor Zhivago, even instructing tourists to discuss it with Soviet citizens.
Nikita Khrushchev denounced the decision to award Pasternak the Nobel Prize in Literature, demanding that it instead go to this Soviet Realist author of And Quiet Flows the Don, who himself won the Nobel seven years later.
Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]
Boris Pasternak
Mikhail Sholokhov &lt;JK European Literature&gt;
This author was associated with the <em>nouveau roman</em> movement, and her <em>Moderato Cantabile</em> marked her shift to more experimental works. For 10 points each:
Name this novelist who fictionalized her affair with a Chinese man in The Lover. She wrote the screenplay for Alain Resnais’s film Hiroshima mon amour.
Duras was nominated for this Academy Award for Hiroshima mon amour, as was her fellow nouveau roman author Alain Robbe-Grillet. In 2018, Jordan Peele became the first African American to win this award.
This American dramatist was nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay for The North Star. Her play Another Part of the Forest is a prequel to her 1939 drama The Little Foxes.
Marguerite Duras [or Marguerite Donnadieu]
Academy Award for Writing Original Screenplay [or the Oscar for best Original Screenplay; prompt on answers that only mention screenplay or script but do not accept or prompt on “Adapted Screenplay”]
Lillian Hellman &lt;JK Other Literature&gt;
Bob Jones feels like “King Kong” when near Madge Perkins in one of this man’s novels. For 10 points each:
Name this author of If He Hollers Let Him Go. He also wrote a mystery series about Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson that includes The Real Cool Killers.
Himes’ aforementioned detective series is set in this neighborhood. This neighborhood names a literary movement that includes Langston Hughes, Claude McKay, and other African American writers.
Harlem Renaissance writer Countee Cullen asks this type of person “Is your heart as true as your arm?” in one poem. A John Cheever story titled for this type of person chronicles Neddy Merrill’s trip home from a party.
Chester Himes
Harlem [or the Harlem Renaissance]
swimmer [or “To the Swimmer”; or “The Swimmer”] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
Answer the following about Wallace Stevens poetry about poems, for 10 points each:
In “Poetry is a Destructive Force,” Stevens considers how this animal “sleeps in the sun” and can “kill a man.” Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea ends with the old man dreaming about these creatures.
Stevens describes “The Poem that Took the Place of [this object]” in his collection The Rock. One of these objects names a school of poets that included Robert Creeley and Charles Olson.
In a poem named for a “high-toned” woman of this religion, Stevens claims “Poetry is the supreme fiction.” Stevens alludes to “the tomb of Palestine” where this religion’s messiah rose from the dead in “Sunday Morning.”
lions
mountain [or Black Mountain poets]
Christianity [or “A High-Toned Old Christian Woman”] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
During a “Grand March” on this country, a journalist is killed and an American actress is scolded by a linguistics professor for hoarding publicity. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Franz participates in a protest march towards this country that is intended to pressure it into opening its borders to doctors because he believes that Sabina will be proud of him.
Franz and Sabina are characters in this novel that opens with an exploration of the Nietzschean idea of eternal recurrence. In the last section of this novel, the dog Karenin dies of cancer.
The Unbearable Lightness of Being was written by this Czech-born French author of The Joke and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
Cambodia
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Milan Kundera &lt;YFL European Literature&gt;
Residents of this country speak Ursprache, a language without nouns. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional country where duplicates of lost items in this country are called hrönir, a fact that Herbert Ashe included in his encyclopedia about it. Adolfo Bioy Casares helps the narrator research this country in a short story.
Tlön was created by this Argentinian author of “Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius,” which he included in his collection Ficciones alongside “The Garden of Forking Paths.”
Borges wrote a story about a lottery held in this place. An F. Scott Fitzgerald story named for this place “revisited” sees Charlie Wales deemed an unfit father for Honoria, and Stephen Benét wrote a story titled for the waters of it.
Tlön
Jorge Luis Borges
Babylon [or “The Babylon Lottery”; or “Babylon Revisited”; or “By the Waters of Babylon”] &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
The protagonist of this novel falls in love with the waitress Mildred and author Norah. For 10 points each:
Name this William Somerset Maugham [“mawm”] novel about the clubfooted Philip Carey, who eventually gets engaged to Sally Athelny.
The character of Cranshaw in Of Human Bondage is from this city, where Maugham’s novel The Magician is set. In the part of his novel The Moon and Sixpence set in this city, the mediocre Dirk Stroeve finds himself unable to destroy an image of his wife after her suicide.
Maugham’s The Moon and Sixpence follows the stockbroker Charles Strickland, who takes up this profession and moves to Tahiti. Strickland is a fictionalized version of Paul Gauguin [“go-GAN”], a man of this occupation.
Of Human Bondage
Paris
painters [or artists] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
This slogan apparently derives from an account of an inscription on an emperor’s washtub that he also translated as “Renovate, dod gast you, renovate!” For 10 points each:
Name this three-word command often cited as a quintessential idea of modernism, which Ezra Pound proclaimed writers ought to follow rather than imitating their predecessors.
Pound took the motto “Make it New” from a book from this country. He also loosely translated poems from this country in his book Cathay and used characters from its writing system in The Cantos.
Another of Pound’s prescriptive writings is an essay titled “A Few Don’ts by a [member of this movement].” Poems of this movement, such as Pound’s “In a Station of the Metro,” focus on clearly-described concrete details.
“make it new”
China
Imagism [accept word forms such as Imagiste] &lt;JB American Literature&gt;
Answer the following about British literature depicting professors, for 10 points each.
Professor Moriarty is the nemesis of this Sir Arthur Conan Doyle character, who appears in A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of the Baskervilles with his friend John Watson.
In this novel by Kingsley Amis, Professor Dixon chafes under his department head Professor Welch, eventually imitating him in a drunken speech on “Merrie England” that gets him fired from the university.
Millat’s twin Magid interns with biology professor Marcus Chalfen in one of this author’s novels. This author’s most recent novel is about two girls who meet in a tap-dance class.
Sherlock Holmes [accept either underlined part]
Lucky Jim
Zadie Smith (The novels are White Teeth and Swing Time.) &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
This writer argued that <em>We Should All Be Feminists</em> in a 2015 essay. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Purple Hibiscus and a novel in which Ifemelu writes a blog about race in the United States, Americanah.
Adichie is from Nigeria, which was also home to this author who wrote about his experiences during the Biafran War in the book There Was a Country. He also wrote about the Igbo people in Things Fall Apart.
The character of Okeoma in Adichie’s Half a Yellow Sun is based on this poet, who died during the Biafran War. This poet described standing before the water-goddess “Mother Idoto” in his poem Heavensgate.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe]
Christopher Okigbo &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
In the preface to his major work, this author described how he drew on the natural histories of Saint-Hilaire and Buffon in an effort to classify mankind. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century French author who included the novels Cousin Bette [“bet”] and Eugénie Grandet [“oo-jay-NEE grawn-DAY”] in his massive cycle The Human Comedy.
The Paris-set “Thirteen” trilogy of The Human Comedy includes a novella titled for a girl with this sort of eyes. A journal described by this adjective titles a 1962 novel about Anna Wulf that has five sections titled Free Women.
The Human Comedy shares its title with a novel by this Armenian-American author, who also wrote “The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze” and a play set in Nick’s Pacific Street Saloon, The Time of Your Life.
Honoré de Balzac
golden [accept d’or] (The novel is The Golden Notebook by Doris Lessing.)
William Saroyan [“suh-ROY-in”] &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
This character takes over a position held by Mr. Garner. For 10 points each:
Name this character who goes with his nephew, a sheriff, and a slavecatcher to retrieve a former slave. In an event narrated by this character, Stamp Paid and Baby Suggs attend to a dead and a bloody infant.
Schoolteacher is a sadistic slave owner in this novel, in which his arrival at 124 Bluestone Road leads the protagonist to take her children to a woodshed behind the house.
Beloved is a novel by this African-American Nobel laureate who also wrote The Bluest Eye.
Schoolteacher
Beloved
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford] &lt;YFL American Literature&gt;
Answer the following about common motifs from Japanese and Turkish literature, for 10 points each.
Bilge Karasu wrote a novel about a garden of departed examples of these creatures. One of these animals is kept by Mr. Sneeze in a Natsume Soseki novel, and lost animals of this type are a recurring Haruki Murakami plot point.
Orhan Pamuk’s novel about the poet Ka is titled after this substance. This type of precipitation precedes Country in the title of a Yasunari Kawabata novel and follows Spring in the title of a Yukio Mishima novel.
This object titles a Nazim Hikmet play. In one plot thread of Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World, the unnamed narrator reads dreams from objects of this type taken from unicorns.
cats [accept The Garden of the Departed Cats; accept I Am a Cat]
snow [or Snow Country; or Spring Snow]
skulls &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
Christopher Fry translated Jean Anouilh’s [“ah-NOO-ee’s”] play about this person, <em>The Lark</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character. Another playwright reimagined her as Simone Machard in one play and wrote another in which she joins the Black Straw Hats in the Chicago stockyards.
This play by the writer of Saint Joan of the Stockyards describes the experiences of Anna Fierling during the Thirty Years’ War. It is partially titled after Kattrin, Eilif, and Swiss Cheese.
This German playwright of Mother Courage and her Children also wrote the Threepenny Opera and The Caucasian Chalk Circle. He argued against Aristotelian ideas in advocating his “epic theater” style.
Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d’Arc; accept Saint Joan]
Mother Courage and her Children [or Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder]
Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Bertolt Friedrich Brecht] &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
Scoto Mantua attempts to sell fake medicine in front of Corvino’s house in this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which a Venetian pretends to be ill at the expense of Corbaccio and Voltore. Mosca assists this play’s title “Sly Fox.”
This playwright of Volpone also wrote Bartholomew Fair and Every Man in his Humor. He described his contemporary William Shakespeare as “not of an age, but for all time.”
Volpone sings a song noting “Time will not be ours forever; He at length our good will sever” in an effort to seduce a woman of this name. Jonson wrote “Drink to me only with thine eyes!” in a poem to a woman of this name.
Volpone
Ben Jonson
Celia [accept “To Celia”] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
This Laguna Pueblo writer made the first print run of the collection <em>Sacred Water</em> by hand. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a novel that follows the veteran Tayo, whose episodes of PTSD often feature the death of his cousin Rocky in the Bataan Death March.
This author from Spokane [“spo-CAN”] wrote Reservation Blues and the young adult novel The Absolutely True Diary of a Part Time Indian.
The 13-year-old narrator witnesses the aftermath of his mother’s rape in a novel by Ojibwe [“oh-JIB-way”] author Louise Erdrich titled for a round object of this type. A Sandra Cisneros collection titled after one of these objects chronicles Esperanza’s coming of age on Mango Street.
Leslie Marmon Silko (That novel is Ceremony.)
Sherman Alexie
house [accept The Round House or The House on Mango Street] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
This poet’s recurring character Crow is asked questions like “who owns these scratchy little feet?” in the poem “Examination at the Womb-Door.” For 10 points each
Name this British poet whose many animal poems include “The Thought Fox,” published in his 1957 collection The Hawk in the Rain.
Ted Hughes’s 1998 collection about his marriage to Sylvia Plath is titled for “birthday” writings of this type. Epistolary fiction is presented as writings of this sort.
In the aforementioned Crow poem, Crow responds to all but one question with this figure’s name. A 17th-century sonnet tells this figure “though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful… thou are not so.”
Ted Hughes
letters
death [accept “Death, be not proud”] &lt;JB British Literature&gt;
A poem about this place describes the wind “ruffling” its “tawny pelt.” For 10 points each:
Name this place, a corpse-scattered paradise where a worm cries “Waste no compassion on these separate dead!” That poem titled for this place ends with questions like “How can I face such slaughter and be cool?”
Other short poems by this author of “A Far Cry from Africa” include the oft-quoted “Love After Love” and “Ruins of a Great House.” He also wrote an epic retelling of The Iliad set in the Caribbean.
In a poem titled for these fruits, Walcott claims “The classics can console. But not enough.” A Steinbeck novel titled for these fruits chronicles the migration of the Joad family during the Great Depression.
Africa
Derek Alton Walcott (That epic is Omeros.)
grapes [accept “Sea Grapes”; accept The Grapes of Wrath] &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
One of these beings named Kraken takes over the island of Alca during the Middle Ages. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures who are accidentally baptized by the monk Mael in a satirical novel. The group that owns a major publishing house named for this bird merged with Random House in 2013.
This author of Penguin Island wrote a novel in which the hermit Paphnuce [“pahf-NOOSE”] converts the courtesan Thaïs [“tah-EESE”] to Christianity. He took his pen-name from his home country.
Penguin’s Twentieth Century Classics series includes an edition of this Anatole France novel, in which the artist Évariste Gamelin sentences Maurice Brotteaux to death during the French Revolution.
penguins [or pingouins; accept Penguin Island]
Anatole France [or Anatole Thibault]
The Gods Will Have Blood [or The Gods Are Athirst; or The Gods Are Thirsty; Les dieux ont soif] &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
Characters in this novel appeared in its author’s short story <em>The Rockpile and the Outing</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. John Grimes resents Roy for receiving preferential treatment from his stepfather Gabriel in this novel, which sees a wrestling match with Elisha on the so-called threshing floor.
This author of Go Tell it on the Mountain also wrote the short story “Sonny’s Blues” and a novel about David’s love of the title Italian waiter, Giovanni’s Room.
Baldwin called this book’s protagonist a descendant of Uncle Tom in his essay “Everybody’s Protest Novel.” This book is divided into the sections Fear, Flight, and Fate, and begins with an epigraph from the Book of Job.
Go Tell it on the Mountain
James Arthur Baldwin
Native Son &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
Rosa Saks inspires the creation of Luna Moth in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the early comic book industry. A pair of Jewish cousins create the Escapist and other superheroes at Empire Comics in this book.
This author of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay also wrote The Yiddish Policemen’s Union and Telegraph Avenue.
In a memorable scene from The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, this artist almost dies while wearing a diving suit. Federico Garcia Lorca wrote an ode to this artist and his “olive colored voice.”
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay
Michael Chabon [“SHAY-bon”]
Salvador Dalí &lt;OL American Lit&gt;
This writer included four one-line poems about chicken in her collection <em>Tender Buttons</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas. She treated her sexuality explicitly in the autobiographical work Quod Erat Demonstrandum.
Gertrude Stein mentored this American author of The Sun Also Rises and a novella about the fisherman Santiago, The Old Man and the Sea.
This Hemingway memoir about his time in Paris during the 1920s depicts locations such as Gertrude Stein’s salons and James Joyce’s favorite oyster cafe.
Gertrude Stein
Ernest Hemingway
A Moveable Feast &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
One of this man’s novels chronicles a “fortunate mistress” during Charles I’s reign. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Roxana. A worshipper of the god Benamuckee is converted to Christianity by the title shipwrecked Englishman in this author’s Robinson Crusoe.
This Daniel Defoe novel sees the title character marry five men, including her half-brother and her “Lancashire husband.” This novel’s subtitle claims that its protagonist dies “a penitent.”
A genre of novels named for this place includes Moll Flanders, Edward Bulwer-Lytton’s Eugene Aram, and Harrison Ainsworth’s Jack Sheppard. Residents of this location were profiled in the Malefactor’s Bloody Register.
Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]
The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders
Newgate Prison [accept the Newgate Novels] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
An actor in this play portraying Leo Gala questions why he has to wear a chef’s hat while beating eggs. For 10 points each:
Name this play put on by the Manager and the Leading Man. A rehearsal of this play is interrupted by a man claiming that life is “full of infinite absurdities” after his step-daughter asks to be a part of this production.
Mixing It Up is performed in this play, which ends with the Manager lamenting that he’s lost a full day of rehearsal. One of this play’s title characters, a boy, shoots himself over the drowning of a child at its end.
Six Characters in Search of an Author was written in this language by Luigi Pirandello. Dario Fo and Ugo Betti were other 20th-century dramatists who wrote in this language.
Mixing It Up [or The Rules of the Game; or Il giuoco delle parti; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, the play from Six Characters in Search of an Author]
Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d’autore]
Italian &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
In a novella, a man with this title attempts to sell the prized cock that his murdered son, Agustín, left to him. For 10 points each:
Name this rank that partly titles a novella about a man waiting for a pension check. In a novel, a man with this title start and loses 32 civil wars.
Colonel Aureliano Buendía appears in this novel, which begins with José Arcadio Buendía meeting the gypsy Melquíades and founding the town of Macondo.
This Colombian magical realist author of No One Writes to the Colonel created the Buendía family in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
Colonel [accept No One Writes to the Colonel; accept Colonel Aureliano Buendía]
One Hundred Years of Solitude [accept Cien años de soledad]
Gabriel García Márquez &lt;JO World Literature&gt;
This poem states that “there is pleasure in the pathless woods” and “rapture in the lonely shore.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem separated into “To Ianthe” and four cantos. The speaker beseeches the sea to “roll on” and notes “Ten thousand fleets sweep over thee in vain” in its concluding stanzas, often called the “Apostrophe to the Ocean.”
This poem by the writer of Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage begins “Bob Southey! You’re a poet” and reverses the usual depiction of the title character by making him easily seduced instead of a seducer.
This poet of Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage and Don Juan [“JOO-un”] wrote about “a heart whose love is innocent” in “She Walks in Beauty.”
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage
Don Juan
Lord George Gordon Byron &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
A poem by this writer titles the Salinger short story <em>Raise High the Roofbeams, Carpenters</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who described a “peer of the gods” in “Ode to Anactoria.” This poet wrote a poem that describes the title goddess as “iridescent throned” and “deathless,” entitled “Ode to Aphrodite.”
This author translated Sappho in If not, winter. Her 2013 novel Red Doc serves as a sort of sequel to a novel about the early life of Geryon and Heracles, Autobiography of Red.
Heracles also appears in The Birds, a play by this writer of Lysistrata. This Athenian comic playwright described a young man’s time at the Thinkery in The Clouds.
Sappho
Anne Carson
Aristophanes &lt;OL Classical Literature&gt;
One of these creatures turns into a “wine skin with gluey sides” in an erotic poem. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures that enter a “plaintive heart” like “the stab of a knife” in that poem. Laura is romantically pursued by one of these creatures named Carmilla in a Sheridan Le Fanu novella.
This poet of The Vampire’s Metamorphoses is most famous for a collection that opens with a poem addressed “To the Reader.” This French Symbolist included “The Sick Muse” in Les Fleurs du Mal.
Baudelaire observes “how beautiful the Sun is when newly risen” in a poem titled for the “sunset” of this movement. The preface to Lyrical Ballads influenced this movement by describing poetry as the “spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings.”
vampires
Charles Baudelaire
romanticism [or “The Sunset of Romanticism”] &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
This novel’s protagonist helps the Auteur direct a film, kills Ms. Mori’s boyfriend Sonny, and is tortured by the “faceless man.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Viet Thanh Nguyen [“VEE-it tang win”] about a Communist spy. It won the 2016 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
This Tim O’Brien collection describes the narrator’s childhood crush Linda dying from brain cancer in its last story. This collection also includes “How to Tell a True War Story.”
Both The Sympathizer and The Things They Carried take place during this war. This war is foreshadowed by conflict in Graham Greene’s The Quiet American.
The Sympathizer
The Things They Carried
Vietnam War &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
This language is used to write a work in which “the drought of March… pierced to the root.” For 10 points each:
Name this language used to write books like The House of Fame, The Parliament of Fowles, and a collection in which three men try to conquer death and learn that “greed is the root of all evils.”
The protagonist of this Jeffrey Eugenides novel is Cal, a descendant of Greek immigrants, who develops a crush on the Obscure Object while growing up in the Detroit suburbs.
Dorothea Brooks is prevented from marrying Will Ladislaw in this “study of provincial life” by George Eliot. This novel opens with an epigraph from The Maid’s Tragedy.
Middle English [prompt on English; do not accept or prompt on “Old English”]
Middlesex
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
Olav struggles with his guilt over the slaying of Teit, an Icelander who impregnated his wife, in this author’s novel <em>The Snake Pit</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a trilogy of novels comprised of The Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross.
This event kills the protagonist of that Undset trilogy, Kristin Lavransdatter. A collection set during this event includes a story of the trials that Griselda’s husband puts her through as the tenth story of its last day.
That collection is this work by Boccaccio, which is set in a villa outside of Florence. Shakespeare’s All’s Well That Ends Well is based on a story from this collection.
Sigrid Undset
the Black Death [or the Bubonic Plague; or Black Plague; prompt on the plague]
The Decameron [or Il Decameron] &lt;OL European Literature&gt;
This writer included “Blackness” in a collection focused on mother-daughter relationships. For 10 points each:
Name this author of At the Bottom of the River, which includes a prose poem in which a mother asks if her daughter is going to be the “kind of woman who the baker won’t let near the bread” and warns her against being “the slut you are so bent on becoming.”
This other Caribbean-born author described searchlights illuminating a barge of refugees on a river in his novel about Salim’s life in a country run by the “Big Man,” titled A Bend in the River.
In “Holidays” from At the Bottom of the River, the narrator works in this country as an au pair. Julia Alvarez’s How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents follows immigrants to this country where Chicano literature originated.
Jamaica Kincaid [or Elaine Cynthia Potter Richardson] (That prose poem is “Girl.”)
Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
United States of America [accept USA or United States of America] &lt;OL World Literature&gt;
Name some things about the work of Sarah Orne Jewett, for 10 points each.
In Jewett’s The Country of the Pointed Firs, a character with this title, Littlepage, tells stories about a town of ghosts. The speaker of William Ernest Henley’s “Invictus” calls himself the “master of his fate” and the “[this role] of his soul.”
Jewett set much of her work in this New England state home to Stephen King. Elizabeth Strout set her novel Olive Kitteridge here, and David Foster Wallace wrote about a festival in this state in “Consider the Lobster.”
In a Jewett story, Abbey Martin considers herself to be Queen Victoria’s relation of this type. Luigi has this relation to Angelo in Mark Twain’s Pudd’nhead Wilson, which was originally conceived as a novel about those “extraordinary” characters.
captain [or Captain]
Maine
twins [prompt on sisters or brothers or siblings] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
These two people leave their home “hand in hand with wandering steps and slow” at the end of a poem. For 10 points each:
Name these two characters. One of these characters explains to the other that she initially turned away at their first meeting because he was “less fair / Less winning soft” than her own beautiful reflection.
Eve’s vanity and desire regarding her own reflection may presage a later scene in which this character sits “squat like a toad” by her ear. This father of Sin and Death rules Pandemonium in Milton’s Paradise Lost.
One of these being teaches Adam, but not Eve, about the creation of the world. Another of these beings expels Adam and Eve from the Garden in the last book, while another is tricked into letting Satan enter Earth.
Adam AND Eve
Satan [or Lucifer; prompt on the Devil]
archangels [prompt on angels] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
A character in this novel writes a 72 page tract on cider. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the title character pretends to attend her piano lessons so that she may actually carry on an affair with Léon.
This author of Sentimental Education wrote Madame Bovary.
In Madame Bovary, Rodolphe breaks up with Emma by placing a letter in a basket of these fruits, which her husband Charles later eats.
Madame Bovary
Gustave Flaubert
apricots
In a novel by this man, a boy named Tom Canty learns to read from a priest and he is later repeatedly asked about the missing “Great Seal.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Prince and the Pauper and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Twain never finished this novel about a supernatural figure that different editions call “No. 44” or “Satan,” who visits Theodor Fischer in Esseldorf and magically transports him around the universe.
In this Twain short story, the narrator is told of the tale of Jim Smiley, who captures and trains an animal named Dan’l Webster over the course of three months.
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
The Mysterious Stranger
The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County
The narrator of this tale notes that King Solomon had many wives, so it should be acceptable for her to have had five husbands. For 10 points each:
Name this tale, which describes a knight who seeks to learn what women desire the most and then is forced into marrying a hag who transforms into a beautiful maiden.
The Wife of Bath’s Tale is part of this medieval English author’s Canterbury Tales.
A competition to win a free supper is proposed in this other section of The Canterbury Tales, which describes a trip to the shrine of St Thomas Becket.
Wife of Bath’s Tale
Geoffrey Chaucer
the General Prologue [or anything indicating that it’s the frame story or the beginning]
Recurrent stories in this novel include an exterminator whose family hates him and an aspirin salesman who runs over a child with his car. For 10 points each:
Name this 1977 semi-autobiographical novel in which an eighteen-year-old version of the author works at a radio station and falls in love with the title divorcee.
Every other chapter in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter is one of these things, supposedly written by the eccentric Brazilian Pedro Camacho. Dylan Thomas’s Under Milk Wood is in this genre.
One of Pedro Camacho’s radio plays is about the son of a wealthy family who is good at nothing but refereeing this sport. Eduardo Galeano wrote about the history of this sport in Latin America and Europe.
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter [or La tía Julia y el escribidor]
radio plays [or radionovelas; prompt on partial answer]
soccer [or football]
This author joined her brother Adrian Stephen and Horace de Vere Cole in dressing up as Abyssinian royals to hoax the Royal Navy into giving them a tour of their flagship HMS <em>Dreadnought</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author and member of the Bloomsbury Group, who wrote The Voyage Out and The Waves and featured the Ramsay family in her novel To the Lighthouse.
In this Woolf novel, the shellshocked veteran Septimus Smith jumps out of a window to his death. It follows a high-society woman who considers sharing a kiss with Sally Seton to be the high point of her life.
The final section of Mrs Dalloway is set during one of these events, which the Prime Minister attends. At this event, Mrs Dalloway learns about the death of Septimus.
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf
Mrs Dalloway
a party [or synonyms such as soiree; anything which refers to a gathering that isn’t specifically a birthday party or funeral or wedding or whatnot is fine]
In this novel, a former slave laborer on Shikoku becomes the richest man in his village. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which the Emperor gets his supermarket looted, partially because he’s ethnically Korean. In this novel, Mitsusaburo and his wife leave Tokyo to go live in a remote village with his brother Takashi.
The Silent Cry is a novel by this Japanese author of Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids. He wrote the semi-autobiographical A Personal Matter about the birth of his mentally disabled son.
In The Silent Cry, Takashi organizes villagers by having them play this sport. Buzz Bissinger traveled to Odessa, Texas and spent a year documenting the Permian team that plays this sport in his book Friday Night Lights.
The Silent Cry
Kenzaburo Oe
American football
For 10 points each, answer the following about Renaissance literature:
In this only play by Niccolo Machiavelli, Callimaco disguises himself as a doctor and drugs Lucrezia with the title substance in hopes that it will make her sleep with him.
This Petrarch collection gave rise to the Italian sonnet format. It consists of a series of several hundred poems about his beloved Laura.
The modern version of this language was based in large part on the works of Petrarch and Dante. It succeeded Latin as the main language used in Rome.
The Mandrake [or La Mandragola]
Il Canzoniere [or Rime Sparse; or Scattered Rhymes; or Rerum vulgarium fragmenta]
Italian language [or Italiano; or lingua italiana]
The protagonist of a novel by this author is assisted in his schemes by his elderly neighbor Hominy Jenkins, the last surviving member of the Little Rascals. For 10 points each:
Name this Man Booker Prize-winning author, an African-American novelist who wrote The White Boy Shuffle and The Sellout.
The Sellout is set in the “agrarian ghetto” of Dickens, a fictional suburb of this largest city in California. It’s also the setting for James Ellroy’s The Black Dahlia and Raymond Chandler’s The Big Sleep.
The main character of this novel, Tod Hackett, plans to paint “The Burning of Los Angeles” while living in Hollywood. This Nathanael West novel ends after a riot outside a movie premiere at Kahn’s Persian Palace theater.
Paul Beatty
Los Angeles
The Day of the Locust
For 10 points each, name some Shakespearean villains:
This advisor to Othello tells him that he has seen Desdemona’s handkerchief in Cassio’s possession. He also warns Othello that jealousy is “the green-eyed monster.”
In a soliloquy, this illegitimate son of the Earl of Gloucester cries “Now, gods, stand up for bastards!” His courtship of Regan causes Goneril to poison her, and he is too late to rescind his order for Cordelia’s execution.
This villain murders his own brother by pouring poison into his ear while he sleeps. This character declares “Give me some light, away!” after being stricken by conscience during a performance of The Murder of Gonzago.
Iago
Edmund
King Claudius
A poet from this movement assigned a color to each vowel in the first line of his <em>Sonnet des Voyelles.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this literary movement. Two of its members wrote the long poem A Season in Hell and the lyric poem "The Afternoon of a Faun."
Arthur Rimbaud wrote his Sonnet des Voyelles in this language, which Alexandre Dumas also used to write The Count of Monte Cristo.
This other French Symbolist published many of his own sonnets in the “Spleen and Ideal” section of his most famous poetry collection, which also includes his poems “To The Reader” and “The Albatross.”
Symbolism [or word forms like Symbolists]
French [or français]
Charles Baudelaire
Answer the following about the winner of the 2006 Nobel Prize in Literature, Orhan Pamuk, for 10 points each.
This 1998 novel by Pamuk discusses the lives of several artists who specialize in painting miniature figures and begins with the murder of Elegant Effendi.
Pamuk and Erdağ Göknar (er-DIE GOKE-nar) won the IMPAC prize for a version of My Name is Red in this language. Robert Fagles produced versions of the Odyssey and Iliad in this language.
Orhan Pamuk is from this modern-day country, along with other novelists such as Elif Şafak and Yaşar Kemal.
My Name is Red
English translation
Republic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]
The title scientist in this story shows his guests a demonstration in which a withered, 55-year-old flower is made to bloom again. For 10 points each:
Name this story in which those old guests are temporarily restored by water from the Fountain of Youth before accidentally smashing the vase containing it.
In this story by the author of “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment,” the title character has a vision in the woods of a witches’ sabbath, causing him to shun his wife Faith and the people of his town.
“Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment” and “Young Goodman Brown” were written by this American author of The Scarlet Letter.
“Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment”
“Young Goodman Brown”
Nathaniel Hawthorne
This character falls asleep at the reins of her family’s horse, causing its death in an accident with a station wagon. For 10 points each:
Name this character, a milkmaid who kills her aristocratic lover Alec after she is abandoned by her husband Angel Clare. She is eventually arrested by the police at Stonehenge.
Tess of the d’Urbervilles was written by this English author, who set novels such as Far From the Madding Crowd in the fictional county of Wessex.
This other Hardy novel set in Wessex features Michael Henchard as the title civic official, who auctions off his family to a sailor for five guineas before being usurped by Donald Farfrae.
Tess Durbeyfield [or Tess of the d’Urbervilles]
Thomas Hardy
The Mayor of Casterbridge
The speaker of this poem becomes “tired and sick” when sitting in a lecture he does not enjoy. For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose speaker leaves a lecture hall to wander in the “mystical moist night-air” and look up “in perfect silence at the stars.”
“When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer” and “Song of Myself” are poems in this author’s collection Leaves of Grass.
This Whitman poem contains very detailed descriptions of people’s features, including those of a farmer and his five sons. Ray Bradbury used this poem’s title for a short story about a family that buys a robot grandmother.
“When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer”
Walt Whitman
“I Sing the Body Electric”
This author wrote a poem from the perspective of a mirror that ends “In me she has drowned a young girl, and in me an old woman / Rises toward her day after day, like a terrible fish.” For 10 points each:
Name this Confessional poet of “Mirror.” She also wrote a poem whose title can variously be taken to refer to a character from The Tempest, the author’s horse, or the city of Jerusalem, “Ariel.”
In this poem by Plath, the narrator tells the title figure “There’s a stake in your fat black heart / And the villagers never liked you.” It describes the title character as “a man in black with a Meinkampf look.”
Plath first met and befriended this poet in 1956 in a seminar taught by Robert Lowell. This other Confessional poet compared herself to a “possessed witch” in a poem where each stanza ends with the line “I have been her kind.”
Sylvia Plath
“Daddy”
Anne Sexton
For 10 points each, answer the following about European fairy tales:
Wayland the Smith falls in love with a maiden who is able to transform into one of these animals. Another fairy tale describes an ugly duckling who turns out to be a beautiful one of these great big northern birds.
This evil nobleman with a notable facial feature marries young, beautiful women only to murder and dismember them inside his castle.
In this story collected by the Brothers Grimm, a miller’s daughter discovers that her suitor is actually part of a bandit troupe that kills and eats young women. She tells this story in between assurances to her audience that it was only a dream.
swans [accept cygnets]
Bluebeard [or Barbe bleu]
“The Robber Bridegroom” [accept “Mr. Fox”]
One literary movement in this country was started at a meeting to commemorate the 300th anniversary of the death of Luis de Gongora. For 10 points each:
Name this country, home to the Generation of '27, whose national heroes include El Cid.
This lead playwright of the Spanish Golden Age wrote hundreds and hundreds of plays. In his most famous play, the villagers of Fuenteovejuna cover up the murder of a royal commander by saying “Fuenteovejuna did it.”
This other Spanish playwright wrote a play in which Adela loves her sister Angustias’s suitor Pepe el Romano. That play, The House of Bernarda Alba, forms a “rural trilogy” with his plays Blood Wedding and Yerma.
Spain [or España]
Félix Lope de Vega y Carpio [prompt on partial answer]
Federico García Lorca [prompt on “Lorca”]
After signing a document, the words “Homo, fuge” ominously appear on the arm of this play’s main character. For 10 points each:
Name this play, whose title character turns invisible and boxes the ear of the Pope, during one of the many pranks he performs with the help of his servant Wagner.
Doctor Faustus was written by this Elizabethan playwright, who never finished his long poem Hero and Leander.
Marlowe wrote a play set in Malta about a villainous member of this religion named Barabbas. That play inspired a Shakespearean character with this religion, Shylock.
The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on “Faust”]
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
Jews [accept Jewish or Judaism]
This author’s stories inspired Schumann’s composition <em>Kreisleriana</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this German Romantic author who wrote many supernatural short stories such as “The Golden Pot” and “The Nutcracker and the Mouse King.”
In this short story by Hoffmann, the protagonist Nathanael has a fear of eyes since Coppelius, the title character, threatened to put out Nathanael’s eyes when he was young.
“The Sandman” opens with three of these documents. Epistolary novels consist of these documents, which also make up the beginning and end of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein.
E.T.A. Hoffmann [or Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann; or Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffmann]
“The Sandman” [or “Der Sandmann”]
letters
This author tried to convince a girl that sleeping with him would be okay since their “two bloods mingled” in the title insect of his poem “The Flea.” For 10 points each:
Name this English metaphysical poet who wrote that “no man is an island” and compared two lovers to the two needles of a compass in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.”
Donne wrote this group of fourteen-line poems during his conversion from Catholicism to Anglicanism. They include “Batter my heart, three-personed God” and “Death be not proud.”
This Donne poem declares “Here upon earth we’re Kings, and none but we / Can be such Kings, nor of such subjects be.” Its first stanza claims that the speaker’s love does not decay, even though “all other things to their destruction draw.”
John Donne
Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations; or Divine Sonnets]
“The Anniversary” [or “The Anniversaries”]
19<sup>th</sup>-century literary criticism could be rather brutal. For 10 points each:
Not one to mince words, this author wrote an article about Longfellow called “Mr. Longfellow and Other Plagiarists.” He also wrote a story in which Prince Prospero’s ball is interrupted by a guest dressed as the Red Death.
This author published Lady Byron Vindicated, which accused Lord Byron of cheating on his wife with his half-sister. She became famous for writing Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Mark Twain accused one of this author’s novels of committing “114 offenses against literary art out of a possible 115” in an essay attacking this writer’s “literary offenses.”
Edgar Allen Poe
Harriet Beecher Stowe
James Fenimore Cooper [or Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses]
An actor’s job is tough enough without the bizarre stage directions playwrights think up. For 10 points each:
This author controversially called for a condom to fall from Alvaro’s pocket in his play The Rose Tattoo. Blanche DuBois leaves Belle Reve to go live with her sister Stella in his play A Streetcar Named Desire.
Characters are directed to “cross the Andes” in this author’s play The Royal Hunt of the Sun. He also wrote Amadeus and depicted the horse-obsessed Alan Strang in Equus.
The opening stage directions to this play call for a “long moment of English silence” before the clock strikes “17 English chimes.” The Smiths have the Martins over for dinner in this absurd play by Eugene Ionesco.
Tennessee Williams
Peter Shaffer
The Bald Soprano [or The Bald Prima Donna; or La Cantatrice Chauve]
In this play, a father inadvertently meets his step-daughter in the back room of a brothel. For 10 points each:
Name this play, which begins with a rehearsal of the author’s other play Mixing it Up. At the end of this play, the Manager exclaims “I’ve lost a whole day over these people!”
This Italian playwright of Enrico IV also wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search of an Author is a forerunner of modernist theatre, like this early modernist play by Samuel Beckett in which Vladimir and Estragon anticipate the title character’s arrival.
Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]
Luigi Pirandello
Waiting for Godot
At the end of this author's novel <em>Cancer Ward</em>, Oleg boards a train away from the title location into exile. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet dissident and winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature. This author compared the title system to a "vast chain of islands" across Russia in The Gulag Archipelago.
This was Solzhenitsyn's first book. In it, a Navy captain is punished for receiving a Christmas present from a British army captain, one of the many cruelties the gulag system inflicts on "zeks."
Solzhenitsyn was forbidden from publishing officially after One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. Thus, his later books were transmitted through this method. It sometimes involved re-copying texts by hand.
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich
samizdat
A pivotal moment in this novel occurs when Big Joe Portagee steals the coins that Pirate had saved to buy a candlestick for St. Francis. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that centers on a group of paisanos which includes Danny, Pilon, and Pablo.
This author wrote about the paisanos of Tortilla Flat, in addition to writing about George and Lenny in Of Mice and Men and the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath.
This Christ-like preacher from The Grapes of Wrath tells Tom Joad that we are all “just one piece of a great big soul.” He is fatally beaten when attempting to help farmworkers organize a labor union.
Tortilla Flat
John Steinbeck
Jim Casy [accept either underlined part]
This author quoted the Wordsworth poem “The Tables Turned” to title his novel <em>These Barren Leaves</em>, and parodied Ottoline Morrell’s Garsington Manor in <em>Crome Yellow</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Point Counter Point and Antic Hay. He borrowed a phrase from Milton’s Samson Agonistes to title his novel about the socialite Anthony Beavis, Eyeless in Gaza.
Huxley’s novel Brave New World takes its title from a speech by Miranda in this Shakespeare play. Its characters include Caliban and Prospero, who conjures up a magical storm.
Huxley also borrowed a line from William Blake’s The Marriage of Heaven and Hell for the title of this essay, which describes his experiences with the psychedelic drug mescaline.
Aldous Leonard Huxley
The Tempest
The Doors of Perception
Joseph Campbell suggested that this novel served as inspiration for Thornton Wilder’s <em>The Skin of Our Teeth</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, which contains many names and places with the initials “HCE.” This novel’s opening sentence fragment, “riverrun, past Eve and Adam’s…” is a continuation of its last sentence.
Joseph Campbell took the term “monomyth” from Finnegan's Wake and used it to describe this literary concept. This literary concept is divided into departure, initiation, and return stages.
One notable example of a hero’s journey is the struggle of this hero of a namesake Greek epic poem to return home to Ithaca to be with his wife Penelope.
Finnegans Wake
hero's journey [accept hero journey or journey of the hero]
Odysseus
Coupeau squanders Gervaise’s money in the title gin shop in this author's novel <em>L’Assommoir</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this French author who included L’Assommoir in his Rougon-Macquart series of novels.
Zola published this open letter in the newspaper L’Aurore in response to the Dreyfus affair. Its title has become a popular phrase used to call out people in power.
This is the profession of the main characters of Zola’s novel Germinal. D. H. Lawrence grew up in a town dominated by this profession, which may be why it’s the profession of Walter Morel in Sons and Lovers.
Émile Édouard Charles Antoine Zola
J’accuse
coal mining [or coal miner; prompt on mining or miner]
One character in this play meets the travel agent “Mr. Lies” while imagining herself in Antarctica during a valium-induced hallucination. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Tony Kushner, released in two parts titled “Millennium Approaches” and “Perestroika.”
In Angels in America, Prior Walter has this disease. The struggle to cope with this disease is a major theme in much gay literature of the 1980s and 1990s.
In this autobiographical graphic novel, Alison Bechdel contrasts a young girl’s open lesbianism with her father’s closeted homosexuality.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
AIDS [or HIV; or HIV/AIDS; or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; or human immunodeficiency virus]
Fun Home
In a masque by this author, the attendant spirit and the water nymph Sabrina free the Lady from a magical chair. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote the paired pastoral poems “L’Allegro” and “Il Penseroso,” and the sonnet “When I consider how my light is spent.”
John Milton may be more famous for this blank verse epic about Adam and Eve’s expulsion from the Garden of Eden, which attempts to “justify the ways of God to man.”
Milton wrote “I come to pick your berries harsh and crude” in the third line of this pastoral elegy. It was written in memorial of his friend Edward King, who drowned in the Irish Sea.
John Milton
Paradise Lost
“Lycidas”
An eyelid-less valet laughs at a character in this place when he asks for a toothbrush. For 10 points each:
Name this location, where three characters are locked in Sartre’s play No Exit. At the end of the play, Garcin declares that this place “is other people.”
This character from No Exit stabs Inez at the end of the play, but it does nothing because they are already dead.
In No Exit, Garcin claims that he was executed for running a pacifist one of these businesses. During the play, he watches his coworkers at one of these places call him a coward for trying to flee to Mexico.
Hell
Estelle Rigault
a newspaper [accept answers describing a newspaper company, such as the press]
A book by this author uses a combination of prose and poetic form known as haiban. For 10 points each:
Name this Edo-period poet of the travel diary The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North contains many poems in this style, which Basho is generally considered to be the master of. This Japanese style of poetry has a characteristic 5-7-5 syllable scheme.
This American author wrote over 4,000 haiku in the last years of his life. This author also wrote a memoir whose second part, “The Horror and the Glory,” recounts his membership in the Communist Party in Chicago.
Matsuo Basho [accept either underlined portion; also accept Matsuo Chuemon Munefusa; or Matsuo Kinsaku; or Sobo; or Tosei]
haiku
Richard Wright
This poem describes people who “threw potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose third stanza repeats the line “I’m with you in Rockland” to Carl Solomon. It begins “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.”
“Howl” is by Allen Ginsberg, a member of this American literary movement of the 1950s that rejected standard narratives, opting instead for sprawling, often explicit, often psychedelic descriptions of the human condition.
A central work of the Beats is the Jack Kerouac novel On the Road, whose original draft was written in this unusual physical format.
“Howl”
Beat poets [or Beat generation; or the Beats; or Beatniks]
one single scroll [accept any answer that indicates it is a single sheet of paper, or multiple sheets taped together into one continuous sheet]
This novel’s main characters are trapped in a cave by their bitter enemy Gagool. For 10 points each:
Name this adventure novel, in which Sir Henry Curtis and Captain John Good help Ignosi overthrow Twala to become the king of Kukuanaland.
H. Rider Haggard wrote King Solomon’s Mines in an attempt to outdo this Robert Louis Stevenson novel, in which Jim Hawkins discovers that Long John Silver leads a band of pirates.
At the beginning of Treasure Island, Billy Bones is given a piece of paper with this ominous symbol, warning him of his imminent death.
King Solomon’s Mines
Treasure Island
the black spot
Ivan Turgenev popularized this archetype by writing a novella that purports to be the “diary” of one of these people. For 10 points each:
Name this archetype prominent in mid-19th century Russian literature. Characters in this archetype, such as Eugene Onegin, are generally intelligent and aristocratic, but cynical and incapable of effective action.
Eugene Onegin was written by this Russian author who died in a duel against Georges-Charles D’Anthes.
Pushkin wrote Eugene Onegin using this poetic form unusual for a novel. While Eugene Onegin adheres to a strict rhyme scheme, rhyming is not used in the “free” type of this form.
superfluous man
Alexander Pushkin
verse [or verse novel]
An epic poem written in this language recounts the tragedy of Rostam and Sohrab. For 10 points each:
Name this native language of most Iranian literature, which became a symbol of Iranian independence from Arab rule.
The story of Rostam and Sohrab appears in the Shahnameh, which was written by this poet. He became known as the “savior of the Persian language” for choosing to write in Farsi instead of Arabic.
The Sufi poet Rumi often uses this substance as a metaphor for religious transcendence. A line from the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam imagines being in the wilderness with this substance, a loaf of bread, and thou.
Persian [or Farsi]
Ferdowsi
a jug of wine [prompt on alcohol]
Tristan Tzara and Vladimir Lenin meet in Zurich in this author’s play <em>Travesties</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Czech-born British playwright who borrowed two characters from Hamlet for his play Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Thomasina Coverly asks her math tutor Septimus Hodge “What is carnal embrace?” in the opening scene of this Stoppard play, which takes place in the Sidley Park country house both in 1809 and the present day.
This animal, which represents the endurance and continuity of existence, is present in all scenes of Arcadia. It is ironically named Lightning in the scenes that take place in the modern era.
Tom Stoppard [or Tomáš Straussler]
Arcadia
a tortoise [or turtle; or terrapin]
This poem declares, “I prize thy love more than whole Mines of Gold, or All the riches that the East doth hold.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the author tells her subject “If ever two were one, then surely we.”
“To My Dear and Loving Husband” is part of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America, a collection of poetry by this early American female poet.
Bradstreet belonged to this religious group prominent in colonial New England. Her poems emphasize her belief in this faith’s marriage covenants, where women took complementary roles to men.
“To My Dear and Loving Husband”
Anne Bradstreet
Puritanism [prompt on Christianity or Protestantism]
The original version of this poem was thirty lines, but its author scrapped it because it was not of sufficient intensity. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which was inspired by Japanese hokku and appeared with unusual spacing in the 1913 edition of Poetry. In its entirety, it reads “The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet, black bough.”
“In a Station of the Metro” was written by this American expatriate, who composed The Pisan Cantos while imprisoned in Italy for treason after World War II.
Bob Dylan’s song “Desolation Row” imagines Ezra Pound and this author “fighting in the captain’s tower.” In real life, Pound edited and removed large chunks of this man’s epic poem “The Waste Land.”
“In a Station of the Metro”
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound
Thomas Stearns Eliot [or T.S. Eliot]
Father Dosen relates the story of Nansen and the kitten in one of this author’s novels. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea.
In this Mishima tetralogy, the law student Shigekuni Honda attempts to save the lives of his school friend Kiyoaki, whom he believes is being continuously reincarnated only to be doomed to an early death every time.
In his memoir Sun and Steel, Mishima compares his body to this place, which he used the two title concepts to grow. At the end of Candide, Candide reminds Pangloss that “we must cultivate” one of these places.
Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka, accept names in either order]
The Sea of Fertility [or Hōjō no Umi]
garden [or orchard]
This author was nearly executed for his membership in the radical Petrashevsky Circle. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a novella which begins with its narrator declaring “I am a sick man...I am a spiteful man,” Notes from Underground.
In this Dostoyevsky novel, the handicapped woman Lizaveta and her sister, the pawnbroker Alyona, are killed by Raskolnikov.
Raskolnikov witnesses this man get mortally wounded by a carriage in the street. Raskolnikov later gives the rest of his stolen money to this man’s surviving family members, which include the virtuous prostitute Sonya.
Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky
Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]
Semyon Zakharovich Marmeladov
The opening chapter of this work discusses Nietzsche’s conception of the “eternal return” as it relates to the title concept. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that follows the lives of the womanizer Tomas and his wife Tereza during the Prague Spring.
This Czech author of The Joke also wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
The third and sixth sections of Kundera’s novel The Book of Laughter and Forgetting are named for these beings. Throughout the novel, Kundera imagines these beings dancing in a circle and laughing.
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Milan Kundera
angels
This poem’s line “We must love one another or die” was changed after publication because its author felt it was too sugary. For 10 points each:
Name this poem which asserts that what “mad Nijinsky / wrote about Diaghilev / Is true of the normal heart.” It begins with the author sitting “in one of the dives / on Fifty-Second Street.”
This poet and lover of Christopher Isherwood wrote “September 1, 1939,” as well as a poem that begins “Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone,” “Funeral Blues.”
Auden’s poem “Platonic Blow” is an example of this material. Henry Miller’s Tropic of Cancer was banned from American bookshelves for being this kind of material.
“September 1, 1939”
Wystan Hugh Auden
obscenity [or word forms like obscene; or pornographic or pornography or similar answers]
This poet described how “A Service, like a Drum – / Kept beating” in her poem “I felt a Funeral, in my Brain.” For 10 points each:
Name this American poet of “I’m Nobody! Who are you?” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
These punctuation marks are present in nearly every Dickinson poem. One of these punctuation marks ends the line “Because I could not stop for Death – .”
The title of this Dickinson poem also ends in a dash. In it, she describes how her imagination kept her entertained despite being exiled to a closet “because they liked me ‘still.’”
Emily Dickinson
dashes [or hyphens]
“They shut me up in Prose –”
In a novel by this author, Padre Jose refuses to hear the confession of a condemned man due to pressure from his wife. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a novel set in Mexico in which the “whiskey priest” flees from the Lieutenant, titled The Power and the Glory.
The “whiskey priest” in Greene’s The Power and the Glory belongs to this religious organization. Greene’s conversion to this branch of Christianity influenced his novels Brighton Rock and The Heart of the Matter.
In this other novel by Greene, the vacuum cleaner salesman James Wormold fabricates reports while working as an informant for British intelligence services which fumble their way around the title city.
Henry Graham Greene
Catholic Church [or Catholicism; or other reasonable equivalents]
Our Man in Havana
A 2017 sequel written by Lucas Hnath opens with this character knocking on a door. For 10 points each:
Name this character from a 19th-century play who proclaims that she has “thirty-one hours to live” before going to dance the Tarantella at a party. Krogstad blackmails this character over her forgery of her father’s signature.
Nora slams the door and leaves her husband at the end of A Doll’s House, a play by this Norwegian author of Hedda Gabler and The Wild Duck.
Ibsen was a major proponent of this late 19th-century genre of theater, which emphasized relatable settings and use of vernacular.
Nora Helmer [accept either]
Henrik Ibsen
realism [or word forms]
Along with E.E. Cummings, Archibald MacLeish, W. Somerset Maugham, Jean Cocteau, and Walt Disney, this man served as an ambulance driver in World War I. For 10 points each:
Name this American author who drew on his experiences in the war to write a novel about the romance of Catherine Barkley and Frederic Henry, A Farewell to Arms.
Never one to shy away from conflict, Hemingway worked as a reporter during this war, which is the setting of a Hemingway novel about the dynamiter Robert Jordan, For Whom the Bell Tolls.
Hemingway spent much of his time in his early 30s on this American island. Wallace Stevens titled a poem after the “idea of order” at this place.
Ernest Hemingway
Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Española]
Key West
Answer the following about World War One poetry, for 10 points each:
This English poet of “Futility” asked “What passing-bells for those who die as cattle” in his sonnet “Anthem for Doomed Youth.” He described a Horace quotation as “the old lie” in “Dulce et decorum est.”
This friend of Owen described soldiers as “citizens of death’s grey land” in his poem “Dreamers.” An officer cries “O Christ, they’re coming at us!” in his poem “Counter-Attack.”
Rupert Brooke’s poem The Soldier, which begins “If I should die, think only this of me,” states that there is now “some corner of a foreign field” that has this characteristic. Please answer with the exact quote.
Wilfred Owen
Siegfried Sassoon
“forever England” [or “for ever England”]
In this novel, Umuofia is colonized while Okonkwo is in exile. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which the famed wrestler Okonkwo kills his adopted son Ikemefuna, leading to his exile.
This Nigerian author, whose essay “An Image of Africa” criticized the racism of Heart of Darkness, wrote Things Fall Apart.
In Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo works as a farmer of these vegetables, which are a symbol of wealth and power in Umuofia.
Things Fall Apart
Chinua Achebe
yams
A boy named Smith takes up this sport after he is sent to a borstal, or prison school, in a short story by Alan Sillitoe. For 10 points each:
Name this sport, the subject of a Haruki Murakami book called “what we talk about when we talk about” it. Sillitoe’s story is named for the “loneliness” of a competitor in the long-distance type of this sport.
This Murakami novel begins with the protagonist Toru Okada searching for his missing cat. At the beginning of the second book of this novel, he finds his wife Kumiko is missing, too.
A story collection by Murakami is set “after” one of these events, which is mentioned in all six stories, including “All God’s Children Can Dance,” “Super-Frog Saves Tokyo,” and “Honey Pie.”
long-distance running [prompt on marathon or ultramarathon]
The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle
an earthquake [or the Kobe earthquake; or After the Quake]
In a play by this author, the regulars at Harry Hope’s saloon entertain themselves with pipe dreams. For 10 points each:
Name this American playwright of The Iceman Cometh, as well as Anna Christie and Mourning Becomes Electra.
This autobiographical O’Neill play uncovers the lives of the Tyrone family as they deal with Edmund's tuberculosis and his mother Mary's morphine addiction.
The characters in this nine-act O’Neill play often speak their thoughts aloud to the audience. Its main character, Nina Leeds, bears a child with her doctor Ned Darrell after learning that insanity runs in her husband's family.
Eugene O’Neill
Long Day's Journey into Night
Strange Interlude
In a mystery novel by this author, the investigative journalist Joseph Rouletabille travels to the estate of Lord Stangerson. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a novel in which Rouletabille and the detective Frederic Larsan have a friendly rivalry to solve crimes near the Chateau du Glandier, The Mystery of the Yellow Room.
Leroux also wrote this novel about the young soprano Christine Daaé, who is tutored by a man she calls the “angel of music.” That man later turns out to be Erik, who hides his deformed face with a mask.
The Mystery of the Yellow Room is an acclaimed example of a locked room mystery. Another example is this Wilkie Collins novel in which the title cursed diamond disappears from Rachel Verinder’s mansion.
Gaston Leroux
The Phantom of the Opera
The Moonstone
This character disguises himself as the gypsy fortune-teller Mother Bunches as a prank on Blanche Ingram and his governess. For 10 points each:
Name this character who hires Grace Poole to nurse his mad wife Bertha Mason, whom he keeps locked in the attic. This master of Thornfield Hall hires Jane Eyre as a governess to his ward Adèle Varens.
Mr Rochester and Jane Eyre were created by this author of Shirley and The Professor, who lived in the parsonage at Haworth with her sisters Emily and Anne.
Charlotte Brontë reworked the premise of The Professor into this other novel about Lucy Snowe, who travels to teach at an all-girls boarding school in the title fictional Belgian city.
Mr Edward Fairfax Rochester [accept either underlined part]
Charlotte Brontë [prompt on Brontë]
Villette
A character in this author’s oldest surviving play holds a basket of charcoal hostage from the chorus. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek playwright, who wrote about Dikaiopolis, who agrees to a private peace treaty with the Spartans, in The Acharnians.
Aristophanes is sometimes called “the father” of this genre of theater, which is often contrasted with tragedy.
In this Aristophanes play, the main character attempts to bring Euripides back from the dead. During their only scene, this play’s title animals repeat the line “Brekekekèx-koàx-koáx.”
Aristophanes
comedy
The Frogs
This author reimagined the Ten Commandments in “The Artist’s Decalogue.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of Desolación who memorialized Romelio Ureta in a set of three Sonnets of Death.
This other poet credited Mistral with introducing him to Russian literature. This poet wrote a poem that begins “Tonight I can write the saddest lines” as part of the collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
Mistral and Neruda are from this country. Another author from this country, Roberto Bolaño, wrote the very long novel 2666.
Gabriela Mistral
Pablo Neruda
Chile
For 10 points each, name these Charles Dickens novels which end with someone dying miserably.
In this novel, Little Nell Trent dies after fleeing from the evil dwarfish moneylender Daniel Quilp, who evicts Nell after her grandfather loses all his money playing cards.
The Chancery ward Richard Carstone dies of tuberculosis at the conclusion of the generations-long legal case of Jarndyce vs Jarndyce in this other Dickens novel narrated by Esther Summerson.
This Dickens novel is set in both Paris and London, and ends with the death of Sydney Carton by guillotine. It begins with the phrase “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.”
The Old Curiosity Shop
Bleak House
A Tale of Two Cities
At the end of one scene in this play, Marco lifts a chair from the very bottom with one hand to show that he is stronger than Eddie. For 10 points each:
Name this play, narrated by the lawyer Alfieri, in which the immigrants Marco and Rodolfo stay with the family of Eddie Carbone.
A View from the Bridge was written by this Pulitzer-winning American playwright, who depicted the unhappy end of Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman.
This character from Death of a Salesman is a former football star who feels pressured to become a businessman like his father Willy. He burns his sneakers after seeing Willy having an affair in Boston.
A View from the Bridge
Arthur Miller
Biff Loman
The central characters of this play sing the protest song “Bloody Justice” repeatedly outside the house of a cotton merchant. For 10 points each:
Name this play about the title group of workers who fight for equality and fair treatment against their manager Pfeiffer and the patron Dreissiger.
The Weavers was written by Gerhard Hauptmann, an author from this country, where the Sturm und Drang movement flourished.
This other play set in Germany focuses on the rift between the brothers Franz and Karl Moor. Karl assembles a band of outlaws to help him defeat and displace Franz in this play.
The Weavers [or Die Weber]
Germany
The Robbers [or Die Räuber] &lt;SB, Drama&gt;
The creator of this idea identified it in early English verse, such as <em>Piers Plowman</em>, and may have developed it based on studies of Welsh poetry. For 10 points each:
Name this irregular poetic meter developed by a Victorian, exemplified by the lines “Margaret, are you grieving / Over goldengrove unleaving?” from the poem “Spring and Fall.” It allows unlimited unstressed syllables.
This poem, which opens “Glory be to God for dappled things,” is a key example of “sprung rhythm” in its author’s oeuvre.
The coiner of the term “sprung rhythm,” Gerard Manley Hopkins, was a professor at the University College in this city, where he wrote his “terrible sonnets.” A series of 15 short stories by James Joyce is set here.
sprung rhythm
“Pied Beauty”
Dublin [accept Dubliners] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
An intense discussion of Walter Scott’s work developing the “historical” variety of this literary form is discussed in a book by György Lukács [jurj LOO-kotch]. For 10 points each:
Name this literary form. E. M. Forster wrote an extensive treatise on the “Aspects of” this literary form, and most of Forster’s more literary output also happens to be in this form.
This author of The Voyeur and The Erasers wrote a series of essays and notes collected in 1963 advocating for the nouveau roman, a type of novel that would be re-invented each time by the writers.
One of the best-known non-French works called a nouveau roman is a novel from this country titled The Goalie’s Anxiety at the Penalty Kick. An author from this country wrote the novels Letter from an Unknown Woman and The Royal Game.
the novel [accept The Historical Novel; prompt on books]
Alain Robbe-Grillet [rob-gree-YAY]
Republic of Austria [or Republik Österreich] (the authors are Peter Handke and Stefan Zweig) &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
George Orwell wrote that no English author could produce a book like this one, or like Ignazio Silone’s novel <em>Fontamara</em>, because they have not experienced totalitarianism. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, whose characters Ivanov and Gletkin are two Party officials who interrogate Nikolai Rubashov.
The author of Darkness at Noon, Arthur Koestler, contributed to The God that Failed, a collection of essays by prominent writers disillusioned with this ideology, for which Karl Marx wrote a manifesto.
Another show trial is depicted in the story “A Tomb for Boris Davidovich,” which was written in this language. A novel in this language follows hundreds of years in the history of a structure near the town of Višegrad [VEE-sheh-grad].
Darkness at Noon [or Sonnenfinsternis]
communism
Serbian [or Serbo-Croatian(-Bosnian-Montenegrin)] &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
This novel’s epigraph, “what’s past is prologue,” is demonstrated by how its characters are affected by events of World War II, and it derives from <em>The Tempest</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Zadie Smith novel, which focuses on the friendship between Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones. James Wood described it as an example of “hysterical realism.”
White Teeth, like many British novels depicting immigrants, is set in this city, which is also the setting of Daniel Defoe’s Moll Flanders.
A street central to London’s Bangladeshi community titles this Bangladesh-born author’s debut novel Brick Lane. This author’s other works include Alentejo Blue.
White Teeth
London
Monica Ali &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
V. S. Naipaul’s work of this type, which opens and closes with a quote from Proust’s <em>Against Sainte-Beuve</em>, is titled “Two Worlds.” For 10 points each:
Identify this type of work. Yasunari Kawabata’s work of this type opens by analyzing five Dōgen poems before discussing Japanese aesthetics, and is titled “Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself.”
This author gave a lecture titled “This Past Must Address its Present” after becoming the first African to win the Nobel in Literature. This author wrote a memoir of imprisonment titled The Man Died.
This Russian never got to deliver a Nobel lecture, since the Swedish government refused to accommodate him and allow him to lecture at its Moscow embassy. He wrote The Gulag Archipelago.
Nobel Prize lectures [or Nobel Prize acceptance speeches]
Wole Soyinka
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
Members of this cultural movement formed the majority of the “Fleshly School” identified by Robert Buchanan. For 10 points each:
Identify this movement that promoted its ideas in the magazine The Germ. In a poem by a member of this movement, two sisters hear the calls of “come buy, come buy” from the title fruit-selling creatures.
An author with this surname, Christina, wrote the aforementioned poem, titled “Goblin Market.” Her brother, Dante Gabriel, illustrated his own poem “The Blessed Damozel.”
This verse drama in imitation of Greek tragedy, written by a Fleshly School author affiliated with the pre-Raphaelites, depicts a woman who hides her husband’s brand to prevent it from being burned in a fire by Althaea. In it, the chorus recites “When the hounds of spring are on winter’s traces.”
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood
Rossetti
Atalanta in Calydon (by Algernon Swinburne) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
As an educational reformer, this man promulgated a controversial conversation-based teaching style at the Temple School. For 10 points each:
Name this abolitionist and women’s rights advocate. One of his daughters used the pen-name A. M. Barnard and fictionalized her experience growing up in his household.
Amos Alcott founded Fruitlands, a communal experiment in living in accordance with this mystical movement. His friend Ralph Waldo Emerson also promoted this movement.
Emerson urged Alcott to move to this town, which he did in 1840. Earlier, four hundred militiamen repulsed a hundred British regulars at this town’s north bridge.
Amos (Bronson) Alcott [prompt on Alcott]
transcendentalism [or transcendentalist movement]
Concord, Massachusetts &lt;WA, AmHist&gt;
He wrote a play about Mio Romagna, who tries to prove that his father, Bartolomeo, was innocent of a crime committed by a gangster named Trock Estrella. For 10 points each:
Name this writer who used the Sacco and Vanzetti trial as the basis for his play Winterset.
Anderson’s play Both Your Houses takes its title from Mercutio’s line cursing the Montagues and the Capulets in this Shakespeare play.
Anderson and composer Kurt Weill wrote the pop standard “September Song” for a musical about this kind of “holiday.” This is the name of a magazine that published Jeremiah Reynolds’s article “Mocha Dick,” inspiring the novel Moby Dick.
(James) Maxwell Anderson
Romeo and Juliet
Knickerbocker (The musical is Knickerbocker Holiday and the magazine is The Knickerbocker) &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
Name these creatures that you might find in a medieval bestiary, for 10 points each.
A common entry was this creature, likely based on stories of the Indian rhino. This creature could only be captured by a virgin and its horn was thought to have curative properties.
Some bestiaries depicted these animals biting off their own testicles so that hunters could not take them to make medicine. They were hunted extensively in both Europe and North America for castoreum.
This animal was a symbol Christ’s Passion that supposedly wounds itself to feed its children with its blood. Francis Drake’s ship, the Golden Hind, was originally named after this bird.
unicorn
beavers
pelican &lt;AF, OtherHist&gt;
A story by this author is framed as a review of the works of a scholar named Nils Runeberg. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the story “Three Versions of Judas.” This Argentine writer included “The Library of Babel” and “The Garden of Forking Paths” in his collection Ficciones.
Another Borges story framed as a scholarly article notes that Pierre Menard applied “the technique of deliberate anachronism and fallacious attribution” to produce an identical reproduction of this 17th-century novel.
In another Borges story, the reviewer of the novel The Approach to al-Mu’tasim compares it to a work by the Persian poet Farid ud-Din Attar about thirty of these animals that go on a journey across seven valleys.
Jorge Luis Borges
Don Quixote
birds [the work is The Conference of the Birds or Speech of the Birds or Mantiq ut-Tayr; do not accept more specific answers] &lt;RY, Short&gt;
A character states “I want the best you have” while purchasing this substance, after which she is told that this will “kill anything up to an elephant.” For 10 points each:
Identify this substance. Though Ms. Grierson claims it is “for rats,” it is actually used on a man who is seen dead next to a single strand of grey hair at the end of a story.
Arsenic is used to poison Homer Barron in “A Rose for Emily,” a story by this Southern author who wrote about Anse Bundren’s quest for false teeth in As I Lay Dying.
Many of Faulkner’s short stories feature Colonel Sartoris, whose father Abner is accused of causing one of these events in a story named after them. Darl attempts to save a coffin during one of these events in As I Lay Dying.
arsenic [prompt on poison]
William (Cuthbert) Faulkner
barn fire [or barn burning; or equivalents; prompt on fire by asking “a fire in where?”] &lt;JM, Short&gt;
Answer the following about female poets and their husbands, for 10 points each.
This man, who was married to the author of the collection Ariel, wrote “the dreamer in her had fallen in love with me” about his other wife Assia Wevill in the collection Birthday Letters.
This poet was married to the author of a collection titled The Quiver. She wrote about spending “seventeen months in the prison lines” in a section titled “Instead of a Preface.”
In “To My Dear and Loving Husband,” this poet wrote that she prized her husband’s love more than “mines of gold” and “all riches of the East” in The Tenth Muse, lately Sprung up in America.
Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]
Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]
Anne Bradstreet &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
At the end of this novel’s section “Calypso,” a man poops while reading from a literary journal, and wipes his butt with a page from a prize-winning story. For 10 points each:
Name this novel set entirely on June 16, 1904. Its last chapter is a soliloquy delivered by an opera singer who is having an affair with Blazes Boylan.
Ulysses was written by this man, who also wrote about Stephen Dedalus growing up and leaving Ireland for France in his novel A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
In her soliloquy, Molly Bloom repeats this word many times while recalling how Leopold “kissed me under the Moorish wall.” This is the very last word in Ulysses.
Ulysses
James (Augustine Aloysius) Joyce
“Yes” &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
In a novel with this title, John Ames dislikes Jack Boughton until he learns that Jack married a black woman named Della, and is hiding it from his father, Reverend Boughton. For 10 points each:
Give the name of the theocratic state ruled by the Sons of Jacob in another novel. In that republic with this name, a woman imagines killing the Commander after playing a game of Scrabble.
The Republic of Gilead is where Offred [“of-Fred”] is a handmaid, whose purpose is to bear children, in this Canadian author’s novel The Handmaid’s Tale.
Gilead is a Pulitzer-winning novel by this author, forming a trilogy with Home and Lila. The town of Fingerbone, Idaho, is the setting of this writer’s first novel, Housekeeping.
Gilead [or Republic of Gilead]
Margaret (Eleanor) Atwood
Marilynne Robinson &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
This character’s repeated breakups are described in the story “The Cheater’s Guide to Love,” which appears in the collection <em>This is How You Lose Her</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who narrates a novel in which a fuku curse is said to stem from Dominican masculinity. In that novel, he is a football player at Rutgers, providing a hypermasculine foil to the title character.
Yunior narrates a Spanglish-heavy novel by Junot Díaz in which he tries to convince this nerdy title character to lose his virginity at Rutgers by going to a brothel.
Yunior also appears in Díaz’s debut short story collection, which is titled for this action. The protagonist of Kate Chopin’s The Awakening dies in this manner, as does Ophelia in Hamlet.
Yunior de las Casas
Oscar Wao [accept either underlined portion; accept The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao]
drowning [accept Drown] &lt;WA, Short&gt;
After a poor premiere, this play’s author revised it, reducing the role of Sir Lucius. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Jack Absolute courts Lydia Languish by pretending to be a poor soldier named Ensign Beverley. This play’s character Mrs. Malaprop is the origin of the term “malapropism.”
This 18th-century playwright wrote The Rivals. He took over David Garrick’s Drury Lane Theatre, which premiered his play about Joseph Surface and Lady Teazle, titled The School for Scandal.
Sheridan was born in what is now this country. Sean O’Casey is a playwright from this country who wrote about the 1916 Easter Rising in his play The Plough and the Stars.
The Rivals
Richard (Brinsley) Sheridan
Ireland &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
This character wears cufflinks made out of human molars and is known for his many “business gonnegtions.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, a part of the shady underbelly of West Egg infamous for fixing the 1919 World Series.
The Black Sox Scandal features in this novel about Ray, who convinces Moonlight Graham to play baseball again after he is told “if you build it, he will come.” W. P. Kinsella wrote this novel, the basis for the movie Field of Dreams.
Nick Carraway visits Meyer Wolfsheim’s Swastika Holding Company in this author’s novel The Great Gatsby.
Meyer Wolfsheim [accept either underlined portion]
Shoeless Joe
F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald] &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
A poem from this collection entreats “O let me rise / As larks, harmoniously” and refers to the time after the expulsion from Eden as “the tender age of sorrow.” For 10 points each:
Name this posthumously-published collection that includes “The Collar” and a poem that ends “Affliction shall advance the flight in me,” titled “Easter Wings.”
The Temple is a collection in the style of metaphysical poetry, which was also used by this English poet, who wrote “Death, be not proud” in the tenth of his Holy Sonnets.
The Temple was written by this metaphysical poet, who was also an Anglican priest. He wrote many religious poems like “The Pulley” and “The Altar.”
The Temple
John Donne
George Herbert &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
A character in this work is scolded for using the greeting “Uhuru!” and lives in a cave that he refers to as his “ghetto.” For 10 points each:
Name this play that features the trickster god Eshu. In it, a man states “Call me X” because his “name has been stolen.”
A Tempest is an adaptation of Shakespeare from a postcolonial perspective by Aimé Césaire, a writer from this Africa-focused movement in Senegal that also included future president Léopold Senghor.
Members of the Négritude movement wrote in this language, common among many North African writers including Albert Camus.
A Tempest [or Une Tempête]
Négritude
French [or français] &lt;JM, OtherLit&gt;
A member of this family leaves home and takes shelter with Captain Cuttle, the owner of a shop called The Wooden Midshipmen. For 10 points each:
Name this family headed by a merchant named Paul, who neglects his daughter Florence in favor of his sickly son, who is also named Paul. This family appears in the title of a Charles Dickens novel.
The title orphan of this other Dickens novel is born in a warehouse and meets the Artful Dodger.
In this Dickens novel, Thomas Gradgrind is an educator who insists that “Now, what I want, is Facts” and comically asks children to give the definition of a horse. Its title reflects Victorian social conditions.
Dombey family
Oliver Twist [or Oliver Twist; or, The Parish Boy’s Progress]
Hard Times [or Hard Times: For These Times] &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
Raymond Picard, a scholar of this author, wrote the article “New Criticism or New Fraud?” in response to a book on him by Roland Barthes [roh-LAWN BART]. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century French playwright. This author of the tragedies Athalie [ah-tah-LEE] and Berenice wrote the title role of his play, Andromaque, for actress Therese du Parc.
Racine’s Phèdre was based on this ancient Greek writer’s play Hippolytus. His other tragedies include Medea and The Bacchae.
This Frenchman argued that actors should distance themselves from roles, instead of focusing on emotion, in his essay “Paradox of Acting.” He wrote a philosophical work about the “dream” of mathematician Jean d’Alembert [dall-ahm-BARE].
Jean Racine [or Jean-Baptiste Racine]
Euripides
Denis Diderot &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
The speaker of this poem claims “that age is best which is the first” and warns that “you may forever tarry” once you have lost their prime. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that advises young people to “gather ye rosebuds while ye may.”
“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time” was penned by this Cavalier poet who compiled poems like “Corinna’s going A-Maying” and “The Argument of His Book” into his poetry collection, Hesperides.
Herrick wrote many poems about this lover of his, including ones about her “clothes,” “petticoat,” and “breasts.” It is unclear who this woman actually is, but, interestingly, she shares the first name of Herrick’s mother. Only first name needed.
“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time”
Robert Herrick
Julia &lt;SB, Poetry&gt;
This work’s author states “I abhor intercourse that does not relieve both,” explaining why he did not partake in his culture’s common practice of enjoying young boys. For 10 points each:
Name this instructional set of elegies by Ovid, which humorously likens its central subject to military service.
Ovid, as well as the much more explicit Catullus, wrote his poetry in this language used by Vergil.
Catullus’s poetry served as the model for this later Roman author’s Epigrams, which are every bit as vulgar in discussing topics of everyday life, such as advising Sextillus to give people the finger when they call him a queen.
Ars Amatoria [or The Art of Love; or The Art of Loving]
Latin [or lingua Latina]
Martial [or Marcus Valerius Martialis] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
A group of seven early long poems written in this language are given a collective name meaning “the hanging poems.” For 10 points each:
Name this language, whose long-standing poetic forms were broken by 20th-century authors who wrote poems like “A Lover’s Call” and “Pity the Nation,” as well as one that opens “Write down!”
Most Arabic poetry historically has been written in this form, consisting of two rhyming lines. Rumi’s Masnavi is alternatively titled after “spiritual” examples of works in this poetic form.
The Arabic word qasida [keh-SEE-deh] is usually rendered in English as referring to this poetic genre. A poem in this genre asks “If winter comes, can spring be far behind?”
Arabic [or al-arabiyyah]
couplets [accept Spiritual Couplets]
ode [accept “Ode to the West Wind”] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
One of these characters declares “the Great Work begins: The Messenger has arrived!” For 10 points each:
Identify these characters, one of whom gives a man a “tome of immobility.” In the epilogue of a play, people discuss one of these characters named Bethesda.
In Tony Kushner’s Angels in America, Prior Walter reveals to Louis Ironson that he has this debilitating sexually-transmitted disease. To treat it, Roy Cohn hoards AZT for himself.
Larry Kramer wrote about the AIDS epidemic in his play The Normal Heart, taking its title from this poem. This poem’s speaker sits “in one of the dives / On Fifty-Second Street / Uncertain and afraid.”
angels (from Angels in America)
AIDS [or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; accept HIV or human immunodeficiency virus]
“September 1, 1939” (by W. H. Auden) &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
This character compares the truth to a “scarecrow in rye” when describing his time at Sweet Home plantation, where him and his friends Halle and Sixo stage an escape. For 10 points each:
Name this character who sleeps with Sethe at the top of a staircase after arriving at 124 Bluestone. He slowly transitions to sleeping in the shed as Beloved gains more influence in the house.
Paul D is a creation of this author, who wrote about Pecola Breedlove’s desire for the beauty of “whiteness” in The Bluest Eye.
A man named Paul H learns that his entire family has been murdered by the servant Christopher in No Telephone to Heaven by Michelle Cliff, a novelist from this country. This is the first name of the author of the novel Lucy.
Paul D [prompt on Paul]
Toni Morrison
Jamaica [accept Jamaica Kincaid] &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
This poet wrote about the horror of seeing women’s breasts “in the National Geographic” while in the waiting room of a dentist’s office with Aunt Consuelo. For 10 points each:
Name this poet who worked for 20 years on a poem about an animal that darts in front of a bus and leaves a “dim smell” in the woods titled “The Moose.”
Bishop used this 19-line poetic form in her work “One Art,” which states “the art of losing isn’t hard to master.”
Bishop set many of her poems like “In The Waiting Room” in this home state where she grew up in Worcester. Emily Dickinson was born in its city of Amherst.
Elizabeth Bishop
villanelle
Massachusetts &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
The first essay in this series defines “three senses” of its title concept on the levels of the individual, the group, and the whole society. For 10 points each:
Name this series of social criticism essays by T. S. Eliot, which presents the title concept as “the one thing that we cannot deliberately aim at.” It includes discussions of “Derby Day” and the “Henley Regatta.”
Eliot’s work criticizes the definition of culture as “the best which has been thought and said” that this author put forth in Culture and Anarchy. This poet wrote the line “Ah, love, let us be true to one another!”
Paul Douglass argues that Eliot’s models were Arnold and this author, in whom Arnold identified the “accent of high seriousness.” Eliot’s “Prufrock” has an epigraph from this man’s The Divine Comedy.
Notes Toward a Definition of Culture [or Notes Toward the Definition of Culture]
Matthew Arnold
Dante Alighieri [accept either underlined portion] &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
A stage manager, dramatic poet, and a comedic actor debate whether one should create art for the sake of the public while discussing possible reactions to this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play discussed by three men in a theater before the director urges everyone to get back to work on presenting audiences the “circle of Creation.”
The “Prelude in the Theatre” begins Faust and is followed by a “Prologue in [this location]” where a bet is made between Mephisto and God over whether Faust will still “know the path which is true and fit” after being tempted to sin.
Faust was written by this German poet who also wrote The Sorrows of Young Werther.
Faust
Heaven
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe &lt;JM, Drama&gt;
Answer the following about aristocratic women in Heian [HAY-on] Japan, for 10 points each.
Calligraphy was an essential part of any high-born woman’s education, particularly in the newly-developing kana syllabary. However, only men typically wrote in this Chinese-derived logographic system still in use today.
This clan gained much power in the Heian period by marrying its daughters into the imperial family. Michinaga of this clan was the father-in-law of four emperors and grandfather to three.
This work, often called the world’s first novel, is an important insight into Heian court life. It features the blank chapter “Vanished into the Clouds” and was written by Lady Murasaki Shikibu.
kanji
Fujiwara clan
The Tale of Genji [or Genji monogatari] &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
In John Vanbrugh’s <em>The Relapse</em>, Colley Cibber played a lord who is named after this type of character in English drama. For 10 points each:
Name this character type that also names the protagonist of Etherege’s The Man of Mode. It refers to a man who is overly concerned with his appearance.
Fops are stock characters in England’s comedy of manners. French works that could be described as comedies of manners include ones by this French playwright of The Misanthrope and The School for Wives.
William Congreve wrote this Restoration comedy about the witty lovers Mirabell and Millamant, who attempt to trick the bitter Lady Wishfort into an engagement with Sir Rowland.
fop (Lord Foppington appears in The Relapse, and Sir Fopling Flutter appears in The Man of Mode.)
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
The Way of the World &lt;JM, Drama&gt;
In this story, a student boils and steps on the title object to make it shrink, after which its owner feels as satisfied as if he had copied out the Lotus Sutra. For 10 points each:
Name this story about Father Zenchi, a priest who needs someone to accompany him with a two-foot-long stick whenever he eats.
“The Nose” is a story by this Japanese writer of short stories like “The Spider’s Thread,” “In a Grove,” and “Rashomon.”
In “The Nose,” Father Zenchi compares himself to Liu Bei [loo bay], a character from this 14th-century Chinese novel about the wars at the end of the Han dynasty.
“The Nose”
Ryunosuke Akutagawa
Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or Sanguo Yanyi] &lt;RY, Short&gt;
A character in this novel visits Sally Tomato at Sing Sing prison every week and becomes embroiled in his drug ring. For 10 points each:
Name this novella about the socialite Holly Golightly, who lives under the apartment of her neighbor, the narrator.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s was penned by this childhood friend of Harper Lee, who detailed the murder of the Clutter family in his nonfiction novel In Cold Blood.
In the book, Holly decides to leave for this country after learning that her lover José has abandoned her to go back to this home country of his. Angel Clare moves to this country after learning of Tess’s “impurity” in Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Truman Capote
Brazil &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
This poem’s speaker describes people with foreign-sounding names like Mr. Silvero, Hakagawa, Madame de Tornquist, and Fraulein von Kulp. For 10 points each:
Name this poem about a man whose “small deliberations” are able to “multiply variety / In a wilderness of mirrors.” It begins “Here I am, an old man in a dry month.”
T.S. Eliot, the author of “Gerontion”, wrote this long poem that opens “April is the cruelest month” and ends with the words “Shantih shantih shantih”.
Like Eliot, this Irish poet wrote a book about the legendary Mad King Sweeney. He created a 1999 translation of Beowulf, and collected his own poems in Death of a Naturalist.
“Gerontion”
The Waste Land
Seamus (Justin) Heaney &lt;RY, Poetry&gt;
This term was first introduced by Ivan Turgenev to describe radical intellectual currents in Russia in the 19th century. For 10 points each:
Identify this philosophy, which holds that life has no meaning and there is no inherent morality.
Turgenev’s best-known nihilist character is this medical student and mentor of Arkady Kirsanov in Fathers and Sons. He defends ideas against Arkady’s landlord father Nikolai and is challenged to a duel by Pavel.
An example of the “anti-nihilistic” novel is No Way Out, a novel by this author who also wrote the story “The Steel Flea” and the novella Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk.
nihilism [or nihilistic philosophy, etc.]
Yevgeny (Vasilevich) Bazarov [accept either underlined portion; or Eugene]
Nikolai Leskov &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
A biography by Elizabeth Gaskell notes how an author who took this job often did not eat, similar to how one of that author’s protagonists who has this job starves until given food by Mrs. Temple. For 10 points each:
Give this occupation of a literary protagonist whose place of employment is burned down by Bertha Mason.
This author published her novel about the governess Jane Eyre under the pen name Currer Bell.
This earlier female novelist wrote The Governess, or The Little Female Academy, the first English-language novel explicitly aimed at children. She also wrote The History of the Countess of Dellwyn.
governess [prompt on nanny or tutor or caretaker]
Charlotte Brontë
Sarah Fielding [prompt on Fielding] (she is Henry Fielding’s sister) &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
Answer the following about cattle in American short fiction, for 10 points each.
In this author’s short story “Greenleaf,” Mrs. May is mauled by a bull that wandered onto her property. In another story by this author, two women have the same “hideous hat” with a “purple velvet flap”.
Royal Thompson runs a dairy farm that is intruded upon by Homer Hatch in this author’s short story “Noon Wine,” which appears alongside a story about the 1918 flu epidemic in her collection Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
The cow Mistress Moolly appears in “A White Heron,” a short story set in this state by Sarah Orne Jewett. This state is also the setting of many novels by Stephen King, who lives in Bangor.
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
Katherine Anne Porter
Maine &lt;JM, Short&gt;
This poem asks “how can we know the dancer from the dance?” and recognizes that one cannot divide life into “the leaf, the dancer, and the bole.” For 10 points each:
Name this meditation on the frailty of old age whose speaker “dreams of a Ledaean body” and contemplates Plato’s view of nature while in the presence of the title group.
This author’s “Among School Children” includes a line about the “paddler’s heritage” of swans, the subject of a more famous poem that he set at Coole. He also wrote “The Second Coming.”
Another poem that features school children is this one, in which they are seen “at recess” before the narrator passes “Fields of Gazing Grain” and “the setting Sun” in a carriage.
“Among School Children”
William Butler Yeats
“Because I could not stop for Death” &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
<em>Prahasana</em> was a genre of plays in ancient Sanskrit falling into this general category, represented by an aesthetic mood termed <em>hasya</em>. For 10 points each:
What type of theater did Aristotle write about in the lost second book of his Poetics? Shakespeare’s First Folio categorized his plays as histories, tragedies, and these kinds of plays.
Another Sanskrit genre, the nataka, comprised plays based on epics, like this ancient author’s play The Recognition of Shakuntala, based on a story from the Mahabharata.
Yet another genre, the bhana, was a type of play performed as a monologue. The unrelated 19th century English genre of dramatic monologues includes this poem that ends with the line “And yet God has not said a word!”
comedy [or comedies]
Kalidasa
“Porphyria’s Lover” (by Robert Browning) &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
Name these poets who wrote about different colors of roses, for 10 points each.
This Scottish author of “A Red, Red Rose” also wrote “Tam O’Shanter” and “To A Mouse.”
This poet wrote that the title object is for both “the sincere friend / who gives me his hand frankly” and “the cruel person who tears out / the heart with which I live” in “I Cultivate A White Rose.”
This poet described a passionate lust in the poem “Blue Roses.” Another of this author’s poems advises “keep your head when all about you” and describes conditions that can be met so that “Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it!”
Robert Burns
José Martí
Rudyard Kipling (the latter poem is “If”) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
This character is said to be “impregnable in his little Quebec” when he pulls up a ladder to his elevated pulpit. For 10 points each:
Name this character who states that sin travels freely and without a passport, and that Virtue is “stopped at all frontiers” in a sermon about Jonah and the whale, addressing his parishioners as “shipmates.”
Father Mapple’s sermon is attended by this strangely-tattooed character, whom the reader first meets when he takes his boots off in the Spouter Inn after selling heads in New Bedford.
The sermon is also attended by this friend of Queequeg, who sails on the Pequod with men like Stubb and Starbuck. He asks the reader to call him by this name in an iconic first line.
Father Mapple
Queequeg
Ishmael [accept “Call me Ishmael”] &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
When asked why he is sitting in a basket floating in the air, this man says that he doesn’t want his mind to dry out like a piece of lettuce. For 10 points each:
Name this man who summons the personifications of a better argument and a worse argument, who argue with each other until the worse argument wins.
An ignorant man named Strepsiades tries to get out of his debts by enrolling his son Pheidippides in Socrates’s “Thinkery” in The Clouds, a play by this ancient Greek comic playwright.
Aristophanes criticizes the politician Cleon both in The Clouds and in this later play, in which a son who hates Cleon sets up a mock court for his father, who loves Cleon, and is addicted to serving on juries.
Socrates
Aristophanes
The Wasps [or Sphekes] &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
Paulo Rigger blames this event for halting his country’s progress in a novel about <em>The Country of</em> [this event], which the author of <em>Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon</em> wrote at age 18. For 10 points each:
Name this recurring event. A concept named for it, in which the author subverts a cultural atmosphere, is explained in Mikhail Bakhtin’s book Rabelais and His World.
Bakhtin’s book connects the carnivalesque with the “grotesque” form of this literary style, which aims to accurately depict everyday life. Defining authors in this style include Stendahl.
Bakhtin traced the origins of using the “grotesque body” to reduce higher elements of society to this ancient genre. A variety of this genre was named for Menippus of Gadara.
Carnival [accept carnivalesque]
literary realism [or realist literature]
satire [accept Menippean satire] &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
A man remarks at how close he is to one of these features when he is drinking at the Farolito bar. For 10 points each:
Name these geographical features. They appear in the title of a novel in which Yvonne and Hugh set off into a forest to search for Hugh’s brother, who is obsessed with drinking mezcal.
This English author wrote about Geoffrey Firmin, a British consul in Mexico who struggles with alcoholism, in the novel Under the Volcano.
In Under the Volcano, Geoffrey despises Jacques Laruelle, first for having an affair with Yvonne, but also for keeping his book of Elizabethan plays. Laruelle wants to direct a film based on this man’s play Doctor Faustus.
volcano [prompt on mountains; accept Under the Volcano]
Malcolm Lowry
Christopher Marlowe &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren co-edited a standard textbook titled for <em>Understanding</em> this subject. For 10 points each:
Name this subject that titles a poem that says it contains “a place for the genuine.” That poem hopes that this subject’s creations should be “imaginary gardens with real toads in them” and notes that “there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle.”
Marianne Moore’s “Poetry” calls some types of poets “literalists of” this faculty, borrowing a phrase that W. B. Yeats used to criticize William Blake. Samuel Taylor Coleridge contrasted this creative faculty with “fancy.”
Moore’s poem takes a quote from this author’s diaries expressing prejudice against “business documents and school-books.” This author quipped that all happy families were alike in his Anna Karenina.
poetry [do not accept or prompt on any other answer]
imagination [accept “literalists of the imagination”]
Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy] &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
One poem opens “Good morning daddy! / Ain’t you heard? / The boogie-woogie rumble” of one of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these things. Questions asked about their fate include “Does it dry up / like a raisin in the sun?”
This Harlem Renaissance poet of “Weary Blues” asked “What happens to a dream deferred?”
In Hughes’s poem “Mother to Son,” the speaker says “Life for me ain’t been” one of these objects. Instead of being one of these objects, her life has “had tacks in it / And splinters / And boards torn up.”
dreams (deferred) [accept “What happens to a dream deferred?”]
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
“crystal stair” [prompt on partial answer] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
Name these novels inspired by real-life painters, for 10 points each.
This Dan Brown novel doesn’t actually have much to do with its title painter’s art, but nonetheless has a picture of the Mona Lisa on its cover.
This novel is directly based on the life of Paul Gauguin. Its protagonist, the painter Paul Strickland, moves to Tahiti and has a relationship with a local woman named Ata.
This Tracy Chevalier historical fiction novel follows the 16-year-old Griet, who becomes a model for a Dutch artist after she becomes a maid to help pay her family’s bills.
The Da Vinci Code
The Moon and Sixpence
Girl with a Pearl Earring &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
In the introduction to one of her works, this anthropologist described being glad at the ability to “collect Negro folklore” and compared anthropology to a spyglass. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who analyzed how racial power structures gave white men “paramour rights” in the South in the book Mules and Men.
In 1975, Alice Walker revived Zora Neale Hurston’s reputation with an article in this feminist magazine, titled “In Search of Zora Neale Hurston.” Gloria Steinem founded this magazine.
A 1945 letter by Zora Neale Hurston to this other black academic described her desire for a cemetery for “illustrious Negro dead.” This sometime rival of Booker T. Washington wrote The Souls of Black Folk.
Zora Neale Hurston
Ms. [mizz] magazine
W. E. B. du Bois [doo boyce] [or William Edward Burghardt du Bois] &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
This city is the setting of a play in which Hester beats up her brother Johnnie and abandons her old home on 57a Valley Road. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the setting of the play Hello and Goodbye. In another play set here, Zachariah prepares his brother Morris to impersonate him in a meeting with Ethel, his white pen-pal.
Port Elizabeth is a city in this country. This country is the setting of Blood Knot and Master Harold …and the Boys, two plays by Athol Fugard, an author of Afrikaner descent.
Fugard led a theater group called the Serpent Players in a 1963 production of The Cure, an adaptation of this author’s play The Mandrake.
Port Elizabeth
South Africa
Niccolò Machiavelli &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
In this city, a man wants to write the life history of a man named Ross, whom he sees as “a bundle of the weaknesses and virtues of a man struggling blindly between two societies.” For 10 points each:
Name this city where a man leads the John Reed Club and clashes with Buddy Nealson.
Chicago is the setting of American Hunger, the second section of this autobiographical novel.
Richard Wright, the author of Black Boy, also wrote this novel in which, despite the efforts of the communist lawyer Boris Max, Bigger Thomas is sentenced to death for killing Mary Dalton.
Chicago
Black Boy
Native Son &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
This story notes that “women don’t belong to a caste” while describing the beauty of its protagonist, who is born “as if by an error of fate, into a family of clerks.” For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which Mathilde [muh-teeld] is forced to take on housework for ten years in order to pay off a debt incurred due to an accident at a ball.
“The Necklace” is by this French short story author, who also wrote “Mademoiselle Fifi.”
At the end of the story, a woman speculates that the original necklace that Mathilde borrowed was actually an imitation made of this material. Henry James titled a short story intended as a reversal of “The Necklace” after this material.
“The Necklace”
Guy de Maupassant
paste [do not accept or prompt on anything else, since the story is titled “Paste”] &lt;WA, Short&gt;
A poem by this author promises “Yes I will be thy priest, and build thy fane” to a figure who is declared highest on “Olympus’ faded hierarchy.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who opened another poem by stating “My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains / My sense, as though hemlock had I drunk.”
Another of Keats’s odes is inspired by a “Grecian” example of these objects lying in a forest.
This ode by Keats compares three passing figures in “white robes” and “placid sandals” to “figures on a marble urn,” and eventually commands them to “Vanish, ye phantoms!” This ode asks “How is it, shadows, that I knew ye not?”
John Keats
urn [accept “Ode on a Grecian Urn”]
“Ode on Indolence” [accept “The Indolence Ode”] (the poems in the first part are “Ode to Psyche” and “Ode to a Nightingale”) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
A sequel to a novel by this author has been put on hold due to the end of his relationship with violinist Philippe Honoré. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a 1,350-page novel about Rupa Mehra’s attempt to arrange a marriage for her teenaged daughter Lata; that novel is titled A Suitable Boy.
Before publishing A Suitable Boy, Seth wrote this novel composed of Onegin stanzas. In it, a yuppie computer scientist falls in love with the lawyer Liz Dorati after his ex-girlfriend places an ad for him in the paper.
A Suitable Boy satirizes the immediate aftermath of this 1947 event in Seth’s home country. Children born at the time of this event are given special powers in Salman Rushdie’s Midnight’s Children.
Vikram Seth
The Golden Gate
Indian independence [accept equivalents including the partition of India] &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
This author defended the role of traditional religion as a grounding of literature in the essay “The Fallacy of Humanism.” For 10 points each:
Name this reactionary poet, who opened another poem by describing a grave arrayed “Row after row with strict impunity.”
This poet of The Black Riders and Other Lines wrote about the Civil War in his most famous novel, The Red Badge of Courage.
A poem on a Civil War theme by this other author describes the body of a man who “had no gift for life” but who “knew how to die.” This author wrote “Bury my heart at Wounded Knee” in “American Names.”
Allen Tate (the poem is “Ode to the Confederate Dead”)
Stephen Crane
Stephen Vincent Benét &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
An author with this surname swept several awards with a story about a little boy who makes origami cranes titled “The Paper Menagerie.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname. The aforementioned author with this surname translated works by a different author with this surname, such as The Three-Body Problem and Death’s End.
Cixin Liu’s [tsuh-sheen lyoh’s] The Three-Body Problem and Death’s End are both works in this genre. Jules Verne’s works in it include Journey to the Center of the Earth.
Both The Three-Body Problem and “The Paper Menagerie” won this award, named for the founder of the magazine Amazing Stories. It is presented at the annual Worldcon.
Liu [accept Ken Liu or Cixin Liu]
science fiction [or sci-fi]
Hugo Awards &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
In this book, the character Rashid Khalifa regains his abilities while serving as a speaker for the corrupt politician Snooty Buttoo. For 10 points each:
Name this book that is set in a city “so ruinously sad it had forgotten its name.” This novel’s main antagonist, Khattam-Shud, dies crushed by a massive statue of himself that he commissioned.
In a reference to this band, Rushdie’s Haroun and the Sea of Stories features a character called “The Walrus.” A song by this band is described several times in Haruki Murakami’s Norwegian Wood.
A character in the novel named Mudra repeats the names of Franz Kafka and this other author of stories and novels, whose works in the former genre are collected in Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka.
Haroun and the Sea of Stories
The Beatles
Nikolai Gogol &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
In this novel, Inger despairs over the fact that her fifth child is born with the same harelip that she has, so she kills the baby. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, one of the first to feature stream-of-consciousness writing, which follows the hard-working Isak as he pioneers the settlement of the Almenning.
A writer with this surname coined the term “stream of consciousness” in the book Principles of Psychology. His brother was a novelist who wrote The Ambassadors.
This novel, which heavily uses stream-of-consciousness writing, consists of seventeen chapters and took its author seventeen years to complete. It opens mid-sentence with the line “riverrun, past Eve and Adam’s.”
Growth of the Soil [or Markens Grode]
James
Finnegans Wake &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
This poem is addressed to a woman referred to as “lost discoverer” who “housed the infinite tenderness” of the speaker “like a jar.” For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish poem about a “deserted one” who repeats the refrain “in you everything sank!” while grieving his loss at the “hour of departure.”
This Chilean poet wrote about lost love in the poem “If You Forget Me.” He wrote the collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
Neruda wasn’t the only heartbroken Chilean poet. This poet leaves with a “forced and sad smile” after urging “generous reader, burn this book” in one of his many antipoems, “I Take Back Everything I’ve Said.”
“The Song of Despair” [or La canción desesperada]
Pablo Neruda [or Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]
Nicanor Parra &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
In a play by this author, Giovanni makes a rabbit-head birdseed soup with ingredients that Antonia and Margherita hide in their clothes, pretending to be pregnant. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the comic Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay! who also wrote a play in which Inspector Bertozzo interrogates “the Maniac,” who reveals that a replica of a bomb is actually functional.
Fo staged several performances of The Barber of Seville, an opera based on Pierre Beaumarchais’s [boh-mar-SHAY’s] plays about this man, which include one about his Marriage to Suzanne.
Fo’s early play Mistero Buffo takes its title from this Russian writer’s play Mystery-Bouffe. This prominent writer of the early Soviet Union wrote the play The Bedbug and the poem A Cloud in Trousers.
Dario Fo
Figaro
Vladimir (Vladimirovich) Mayakovsky &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
The author’s friend noted “Everything in this book has happened but a coup!” when calling this book prophetic; of course, many coups proceeded happened in the country soon after. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinua Achebe novel set a fictional country resembling Nigeria. Its protagonist Odili is betrayed by his girlfriend for Nanga, who uses his position as Minister of Culture get rich via corruption.
Achebe also criticized this novel’s author Joseph Conrad as a “bloody racist” for questionable depictions of Africans in the Congo Free State.
This other Joseph Conrad novel also imagines a fictional country, that of Costaguana, whose long history of violence is brought to an end by the caudillo Ribiera. It is titled for an “incorruptible” man in Sulaco.
A Man of the People
Heart of Darkness
Nostromo &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
In a story by this author, tremendous explosions “like a rifle” go off “bang bang bang” in the heart of Bowman. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “Death of a Traveling Salesman,” who wrote another story about Phoenix Jackson traveling through the woods to get medicine.
In this novella, a traveling salesman starves himself to death; he is earlier reminded by his mother to catch the seven o’clock train and reprimanded by the chief clerk for only speaking behind his bedroom door and giving answers of “Yes” and “No.”
This author wrote about Willy Loman, who travels to Boston to sell real estate and see his mistress, in the play Death of a Salesman.
Eudora (Alice) Welty
“The Metamorphosis”
Arthur (Asher) Miller &lt;WA, Short&gt;
The bulk of these works are addressed to a “Fair Youth” including one set in “the chronicle of wasted time” with “beauty making beautiful old rhyme.” For 10 points each:
Name these works, the most famous of which asks “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”
In “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”, Shakespeare finds the comparison inadequate because he believes his beloved “art more” of these two qualities. Name both.
Sonnets 127 through 154 are addressed to this figure, a mistress of Shakespeare whose eyes “are nothing like the sun” and whose hair is compared to wires in Sonnet 130.
Shakespeare’s sonnets [accept equivalents]
lovely AND temperate
the Dark Lady &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
A propagandized re-envisioned history of this battle inserted Napoleon into it, even though Napoleon did not take part in this battle at all. For 10 points each:
Name this battle at which a “stable-lad from Oxwood” was killed by a large rearing stallion. In this battle, strategically positioned livestock were used to cut off retreat by farmers.
This author used the Battle of the Cowshed as an allegory of the Russian Civil War in his novel Animal Farm.
The actual hero of the Battle of the Cowshed, Snowball, meets his downfall when he is attacked by propaganda claiming that he tried to sabotage the creation of this building.
Battle of the Cowshed [accept equivalents with that specific underlined word; definitely DO NOT accept “Battle of Cowpens”]
George Orwell
the windmill [accept anything involving a windmill] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
The main character of this section visits the Moon, where he learns why its surface appears pock-marked. For 10 points each.
Name this section of a larger work, whose main character sees twelve bright lights inside the Sun and sees a vision of a many-petaled rose.
Paradiso is the last section of Dante’s Divine Comedy, which begins with this section in which Virgil guides Dante through Hell.
In the second circle of Hell, Dante sees two lovers trapped in an eternal whirlwind, and faints out of pity when he hears their story. Name either lover.
Paradiso [or Paradise; or Heaven; prompt on The Divine Comedy or La Divina Commedia]
Inferno
Francesca da Rimini or Paolo Malatesta [accept Francesca da Rimini or Paolo Malatesta]
The speaker of one of these poems by this author personifies time as “the subtle thief of youth.” For 10 points each:
Identify this type of poem by a certain author, which include “On the Late Massacre in Piedmont.” Another one of these works describes a world as “dark” and “wide” as the speaker considers how his light was spent.
Milton is best known for penning this epic poem in twelve books, which ends with Adam and Eve’s expulsion from Eden.
In Paradise Lost, Milton assigned this name to the capital of Hell. This city is designed and built by the fallen angel Mulciber.
sonnets by John Milton [prompt on partial answer]
Paradise Lost
Pandæmonium
A pun-loving author from this country published a history of cigars titled Holy Smoke, as well as a novel published in English as his “Inferno.” For 10 points each:
Name this island country home to Guillermo Infante, who recounted his time serving as infantry in his Infanteria. This country was also home to the author of The Kingdom of This World, Alejo Carpentier.
This other Cuban author and national hero penned the Versos Sencillos, a poem from which was adopted into the anthem “Guantanamera.”
A collection of stories by Infante is titled after this place “every night.” This place also titles a prose work following Duke Basilius by Sir Phillip Sidney.
Cuba [or Republic of Cuba]
Jose Marti [or José Julián Martí Pérez]
Arcadia [accept The Countess of Pembroke’s Arcadia]
Name some characters from To Kill a Mockingbird, for 10 points each.
This hero, Scout’s father, defends Tom Robinson in his rape trial.
This neighbor of the Finches enjoys gardening and teaching Scout not to be racist.
This best friend of Scout lives in Meridian, Mississippi, but frequently visits Maycomb. When he runs away from home, he lies that his father kept him chained up in the basement.
Atticus Finch [or Atticus Finch]
Miss Maudie Atkinson [or Miss Maudie Atkinson; or Miss Maude Atkinson]
Dill Harris [or Dill Harris; or Charles Baker Harris]
Anna Svärd is the final novel of this author’s Ring Trilogy. For 10 points each:
Identify this winner of the 1909 Nobel Prize in Literature. The title child mounts a goose and explores this author’s native country in her book The Wonderful Adventures of Nils.
Lagerlof fellow countrywoman, Astrid Lindgren, is best-known for writing three novels about this incredibly strong red-headed girl.
Selma Lagerlof and Astrid Lindgren both hailed from this Scandinavian country, whose more recent literary output includes The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, by Stieg Larsson.
Selma Lagerlof
Pippi Longstocking [accept either name]
Kingdom of Sweden
Children in this novel are born in hatcheries and educated by the hypnopaedic method. For 10 points each:
Name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.
In Brave New World, areas which aren’t controlled by the World State are known by this name. One example is Malpais in New Mexico, where John the Savage lives.
This character is a lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering, but after he reads his students a poem in praise of solitude, he is exiled to the Falkland Islands.
Brave New World
savage reservations
Helmholtz Watson [or Helmholtz Watson]
This duo’s first collection was published in 1812. For 10 points each:
Identify these German brothers who collected and retold various folk tales, such as those of Hansel and Gretel, Sleeping Beauty, and Snow White.
This American author included “The Unicorn in the Garden” in his 1940 collection Fables for Our Time. This author’s best-known story recounts the mundane life of a man who experiences several heroic daydreams.
This English author of Nights at the Circus drew inspiration from Charles Perrault’s fairy tales in writing her magical realist collection The Bloody Chamber.
Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm [accept “The Brothers Grimm” or any other clear equivalents]
James Thurber
Angela Carter
Give the following about the concept of beauty in poetry, for 10 points each:
This poet claimed “all ye need to know” is that “beauty is truth, truth beauty” at the conclusion of his “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
This poet wrote about the fortunate few who “have heard [beauty’s] massive sandal set on stone” in her sonnet “Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare.” This poet’s “First Fig” opens: “My candle burns at both ends.”
This poet suggested that “beauty is its own excuse for Being” in “The Rhodora.” The speaker instructs a “meek lover of the good” to “Find me, and turn thy back on heaven” in this poet’s “Brahma.”
John Keats
Edna St. Vincent Millay
Ralph Waldo Emerson
This animal belongs to a character who lost one of his hands in an accident. For 10 points each:
Identify this old and crippled animal which Carlson shoots in the back of the head out of mercy, foreshadowing the end of the novella.
The fate of Candy’s dog is similar to that of Lennie Small, who is shot by George Milton at the end of this author’s Of Mice and Men.
Lennie dreams of raising these animals, partly because he loves being able to touch soft things.
Candy’s dog
John (Ernst) Steinbeck, Jr.
rabbits [or bunnies]
These events provide the only relief for the narrator’s insomnia, which is exacerbated by a lantern that blankets his room with images of characters from bedtime stories. For 10 points each:
Name this specific type of action. The narrator is denied one of these when his family is visited by Charles Swann.
Consuming a tea-soaked madeleine reminds the narrator of his childhood in the first section of this author’s seven-part magnum opus, In Search of Lost Time.
The fifth part of In Search of Lost Time is titled for an inhabitant of this type of place. In another novel, Madame Defarge leads a mob in an attack on this type of place.
Marcel’s bedtime kisses which he receives from his mother [accept clear equivalents involving a kiss and either bedtime or the narrator’s mother]
Marcel Proust
prisons [accept The Prisoner; accept “the Bastille”]
In one short story, Kandata attempts to use a thread of a spider to leave this place, but the Buddha watches as that attempt fails. For 10 points each:
Name this place. In another short story, the artist Yoshihide starts abusing all of his apprentices and eventually hangs himself after he is asked to make a painting of this place.
“The Spider’s Thread” and “Hell Screen” were written by this Japanese master of the short story. The testimony of various  characters about the dead body found in the woods comprises this author’s “In a Grove.”
Akutagawa notably clashed with this Japanese author regarding the role of lyricism and structure in novel writing. This author wrote about the search for a husband for Yukiko in The Makioka Sisters.
hell [accept “Hell Screen”]
Ryunosuke Akutagawa [or Akutagawa Ryunosuke]
Jun’ichiro Tanizaki
This novel’s frame narrative presents it as a puppet play. For 10 points each:
Name this “novel without a hero” by William Makepeace Thackeray about Becky Sharp and Amelia Sedley. It gets its title from a location in The Pilgrim’s Progress.
Amelia is given one of these things as a present. She thinks it’s a present from George Osborne and loves it, but despises it when she finds out it was actually Dobbin who gave it to her.
Vanity Fair includes a celebrated description of this historical event, during which George Osborne is killed.
Vanity Fair
a piano
Battle of Waterloo [accept Battle of Quatre Bras; prompt on the Napoleonic Wars]
The novel’s title location is a utopia where the ill are imprisoned and murderers cared for. For 10 points each:
Identify this satirical 1872 novel, in which the sheep farmer Higgs follows Chowbok through a valley to reach a strange technology-hating society.
Erewhon was written by an 19th century British author with this name, who also wrote The Way of All Flesh An earlier author with this name wrote about the squire Ralpho and the title knight-errant in the poem Hudibras.
The later Butler’s novel The Way of All Flesh centers on a son of Theobald with this name. Jack Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff both assume this name in an Oscar Wilde play punningly titled for the Importance of Being [this person].
Erewhon: or, Over the Range
Samuel Butler
Ernest [accept “The Importance of Being Earnest”]
After this character is accused of infidelity, the friar suggests that her death be faked so the truth will come out. For 10 points each:
Name this daughter of Leonato, who is disguised as Antonio’s daughter at the wedding at the end of the play, where it is revealed she is still alive.
Hero marries Claudio at the end of Much Ado About Nothing, in which this niece of Leonato marries Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing is one of Shakespeare’s contributions to this genre, other examples of which include Measure for Measure and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
Hero
Beatrice
comedy
This author wrote a mock-saga subtitled “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” about an escaped bear who revolts against humans. For 10 points each:
Name this German-language poet of “Atta Troll.” He wrote about a golden-haired woman with an alluring voice who lives in  the Rhine River in “Die Lorelei”.
Near the end of “Atta Troll,” Heine sarcastically quipped that the poem was “perhaps the last… song of” this literary movement. This genre’s emphasis on nature and emotion was exemplified by Novalis and Holderlin.
German Romanticism was predated by this playwright of Wallenstein and The Robbers.
Heinrich Heine
Romanticism
Friedrich Schiller
This novel’s protagonist hides out in Alma Schmidt’s home after going AWOL. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel about Private Prewitt, whose refusal to box for Captain “Dynamite” Holmes eventually gets him tossed in the stockade. At the novel’s end, Prewitt is mistaken for a spy and is shot in a chest by a police officer.
“Wave,” “Argil and Mold,” “Plant and Phantom” and “Wake” are the four sections of this author’s novel The Naked and the Dead. A nonfiction account of Gary Gilmore makes up this writer’s The Executioner’s Song.
From Here to Eternity ends a week before this war’s bombing at Pearl Harbor, and The Naked and the Dead is set in this war’s Philippines campaign.
From Here to Eternity (by James Jones)
Norman Mailer
World War II [or WWII]
In this collection’s third entry, the central character meets Ying Chan while in Thailand on a business trip. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of novels in which Shigekuni Honda repeatedly encounters various reincarnations of his childhood friend Kiyoaki Matsugae.
This author wrote The Sea of Fertility tetralogy. The mentally tortured Mizoguchi burns down the title structure at the end of this author’s The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. He committed suicide after failing to lead a coup.
This author and lover of Anais Nin wrote Reflections on the Death of Mishima. This author wrote the semi-autobiographical Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn, which were frequently censored for their candid sexuality.
The Sea of Fertility tetralogy [or Hojo no Umi]
Yukio Mishima
Henry Miller
In a story set in this place, Father Peregrine and Father Stone investigate mysterious “Fire Balloons” floating around in the sky. For 10 points each:
Identify this location, the setting of the stories “Ylla” and “Usher II.” Those stories appear in a collection titled for this place that includes the story “There Will Come Soft Rains.”
The Martian Chronicles was written by this prolific American author of Fahrenheit-451.
In Fahrenheit-451, Captain Beatty sends one of these ruthless tracking machines in pursuit of Guy Montag. These robotic beasts subdue their prey by injecting them with procaine.
Mars [accept “The Martian Chronicles”]
Ray Bradbury
Mechanical Hounds
This author wrote an approximately 111 stanza poem that is considered to be the prototypical work in the “Sandesa Kavya” tradition. For 10 points each:
Name this Classical author. In his “Meghaduta”, an exiled yaksa describes the journey that a cloud would take from his exiled location to his wife’s location at Mount Kailasa.
Kalidasa used this Classical Indian language to write “Meghaduta”,  or “The Cloud Messenger” as well as The Recognition of Shakuntala.
In The Recognition of Shakuntala, Dushyanta finds one of these types of objects inside a fish. In Plato’s Repulic, Glaucon posits that a Just man who finds one of these objects that granted invisibility would behave in the same way as an unjust man.
Kalidasa
Sanskrit
a ring [accept signet ring; accept Ring of Gyges]
This character initially breaks off her engagement to Captain Wentworth at age 19. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who later renews that engagement with Wentworth a while after he returns from the Napoleonic Wars.
Anne Elliot’s marriage to Frederick Wentworth occurs at the end of this Jane Austen novel.
A smorgasbord of marriages happen at the end of this other Austen novel, including one between Edward Ferrars and Elinor Dashwood, and between Colonel Brandon and Elinor’s sister Marianne.
Anne Elliot
Persuasion
Sense and Sensibility
A character in this collection gets in trouble for saying that some wine is “good enough for Christ himself.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 100 stories by Giovanni Boccaccio.
The storytellers in the Decameron are holed up in a villa outside Florence on account of this historical event, and while away their time telling tales.
Dioneo is the only one of the storytellers exempt from this requirement. Aside from the first and ninth days, every day of storytelling is subject to this requirement.
The Decameron
the Black Death [or the Black Plague]
every story has to conform to a specific topic [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
This poem describes a higher power who guides its subject from “zone to zone” and will “lead [the speaker’s] steps aright.” For ten points each:
Name this poem that describes an animal that has flown all day, “yet stoop[s] not, weary, to the welcome land / though the dark is near.” The speaker asks this poem’s title animal: “dost thou pursue thy solitary way?”
This early American poet wrote “To a Waterfowl.” At the age of seventeen, this poet composed a “meditation on death” titled “Thanatopsis.”
In “Thanatopsis”, Bryant describes the great group of dead humanity moving “to that mysterious realm” with this two-word phrase.
“To a Waterfowl”
William Cullen Bryant
innumerable caravan
This poem’s first line was mirrored by another author’s poem which compares his lover to a slimy fish sought out by other fish. For 10 points each:
Identify this poem that prompted yet another author’s “Nymph’s Reply.” After listing various luxuries, this poem’s speaker tells its addressee that “if these delights thy mind may move, then live with me and be my Love.”
This contemporary of Shakespeare wrote “The Passionate Shepherd to His Love”, as well as the plays The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
In Doctor Faustus, the title character summons this woman’s shade, and asks if hers is “the face that launch’d a thousand ships” before entreating her to “make me immortal with a kiss.”
“The Passionate Shepherd to His Love”
Christopher Marlowe
Helen of Troy
Identify the following playwrights who were involved in France during World War II, for 10 points each:
This Irish writer assisted the French Resistance throughout the war, during which time he wrote the novel Watt. After the war, he wrote such plays as Endgame and Waiting for Godot.
This playwright of The Chairs and The Lesson hid away in Marseilles during the war. His first play centers on the  Smiths and the Martins, and he wrote several plays featuring the character Berenger.
This French playwright’s dislike of the Vichy Government was evident in his play Antigone. This writer’s version of the Joan of Arc story was published under the title The Lark.
Samuel Beckett
Eugene Ionesco
Jean Anouilh
This man is the reincarnation of the Golden Cicada and the sworn brother of Emperor Tang Taizong, and he frequently recites a mantra which tightens a circlet around the head of a companion as punishment. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist monk tasked with retrieving the Pali Canon scriptures. This monk is protected by Zhu Bajie, Sha Wujing, and the Monkey King, since legends eating his flesh grants immortality.
Xuanzang is the supposed main character of this Tang Dynasty Chinese classic, although he’s usually overshadowed in popular culture by the Monkey King.
Xuanzang rides a white horse who is actually a prince of these mythical beings. A king of these creatures gives the Monkey King his magical staff, while a Laurence Yep novel about a boy flying kites in San Francisco is titled for the wings of these mythical creatures.
Xuanzang [o Tang Sanzang; accept Tang Seng; accept Tripitaka; accept Longevity Monk]
Journey to the West [plus those other answerlines]
dragons [accept long; accept Dragonwings]
Before Bob Dylan, this author was the most recent American to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote about Pecola Breedlove’s burgeoning inferiority complex in The Bluest Eye. The house at 124 Bluestone Road is haunted the title ghost of this author’s novel Beloved.
In this Morrison novel with a biblical name, Guitar Bains accidentally kills Pilate during an attempt to shoot her brother, Milkman Dead.
In the opening scene of Song of Solomon, Robert Smith tries to fly off the roof of one of these places. In All the King's Men, Willie Stark tries to build one of these places that will be free to the public.
Toni Morrison
Song of Solomon
a hospital
Dr. Livesey figures out the purpose of this object. For 10 points each:
Name this object, which Smollett refuses to give up, prompting an attack on the stockade where he is staying with Abraham Gray and Trelawney.
Treasure Island, in which the aforementioned map appears, was written by this Scot, who also created Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
In Treasure Island, a pirate who is missing two fingers is named after this type of dog. In the novel, pirates are presented with a spot described by this adjective if it is deemed necessary to overthrow them.
the treasure map from Treasure Island
Robert Louis Stevenson
black
For 10 points each, answer the following about censorship in the Soviet Union.
One of the most famous examples of Soviet censorship is a before-and-after photo of Nikolai Yezhov standing next to this Soviet dictator—of course, Yezhov was edited out of the “after” photo after he too was purged by this man.
After Stalin’s death, this period of liberalization, partially named after the premier who denounced Stalin’s cult of personality, loosened censorship on literature and art and opened up the Soviet Union.
This type of “self-publishing” literature in the Soviet Union was the main way to get around Soviet censorship and spread banned literature. Doctor Zhivago and many works by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn were first published in this form.
Joseph Stalin [or Iosef Dzhugashvili]
Khrushchev’s Thaw [or khrushchovskaya ottepel]
samizdat
Time at Auschwitz inspired an author from this country to write the story collection This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen. For 10 points each:
Identify this country, whose other Holocaust-inspired literature by native sons includes the novels The Painted Bird and Enemies, A Love Story.
Enemies, A Love Story was written by this Polish-born author who wrote exclusively in Yiddish. He created a gullible baker oblivious to his wife’s infidelities in the story “Gimpel the Fool.”
This other Jewish author translated Singer’s “Gimpel the Fool” into English. This author’s own works include The Adventures of Augie March and Herzog.
Republic of Poland
Isaac Bashevis Singer
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
The narrator of this poem is “indifferent to bearers of Flemish wheat or English cottons” and bemoans, “every moon is atrocious and every sun bitter”. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the title vehicle states, “I no longer felt myself guided by haulers”, and declares that “at times I have seen what man thought he saw” in its exotic travels.
This French poet and sometime lover of Paul Verlaine wrote “The Drunken Boat”, as well as the lengthy poem A Season in Hell.
In the “Delirium II” section of Rimbaud’s A Season in Hell, the speaker claims to have invented the colors of these five letters, describing A as black, E as white, I as red, O as blue, and U as green.
“The Drunken Boat” [or “Le Bateau ivre”]
Arthur Rimbaud
vowels
Paul de Kruif’s assistance with scientific specifics earned him one-fourth of the royalties made by this author’s novel Arrowsmith. For 10 points each:
Name this first American writer to win the Nobel Prize. This author created the fictional town of Zenith, which serves as the setting to his novels Dodsworth and Babbitt.
Will and Carol Kennicott appear in this Lewis novel set in the fictional town of Gopher Prairie.
This populist Senator defeats FDR and Walt Towbridge in the 1936 election to become the tyrannical President of the United States in Lewis’s satirical novel It Can’t Happen Here.
Sinclair Lewis
Main Street
Berzelius “Buzz” Windrip [accept either underlined name]
Athena appears on the roof of a temple to tell the title character who his parents are in this man’s play Ion. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Greek playwright of Medea and The Trojan Women.
In this Euripides play, Pentheus gets brutally torn apart by a group of women including his mother because he disrespects Dionysus.
At the end of The Bacchae, Dionysus miraculously places Pentheus in this type of location, then points him out to the Maenads, who proceed to tear him apart.
Euripides
The Bacchae [or The Bacchantes; or Bakchai]
at the top of a fir tree
This poet asks, “ Does my sassiness upset you?” in a poem which repeats, “I rise,” and in another claims, “Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. / I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model's size.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of “Still I Rise” and “Phenomenal Woman” who wrote about a creature that sings “with a fearful trill” “heard / on the distant hill” because it “sings of freedom.”
Angelou titled both an autobiography and a poem after a “caged” one of these animals, a phrase taken from a Paul Laurence Dunbar poem whose speaker claims that he “[k]nows why the caged” one of these animals “sings.”
This Dunbar poem asks: “Why should the world be over-wise, in counting all our tears and sighs?” This poem is titled for an object that “grins and lies”, and “hides our cheeks and shades our eyes.”
Maya Angelou
bird [or birds; accept “I know why the caged bird sings”]
“We Wear the Mask”
This author followed the publication of his best-known book with The Life and Death of Mr. Badman. For 10 points each:
Name this Baptist preacher, who spent his time imprisoned in Bedfordshire prison writing the religious allegory The Pilgrim’s Progress.
This everyman is the protagonist of The Pilgrim’s Progress. This character is aided by Hopeful in traversing the River of Death to reach the Celestial City.
Near the start of the trip, Christian and his companion Pliable both fall into this mire. Though Pliable escapes, Christian remains trapped in this swamp until he is rescued by the character Help.
John Bunyan
Christian [accept “Graceless”]
Slough of Despond
John Dryden’s poem with this name is comprised of 304 quatrains and was published a year after the Great Fire of London. For 10 points each:
Give this title of the aforementioned poem, and of another poem published 300 years later, which opens: “Sexual intercourse began in nineteen sixty three (which was rather late for me).”
The later “Annus Mirabilis” was written by this poet, whose collection The Whitsun Weddings contains “An Arundel Tomb.” He advised against conceiving children in “This Be the Verse.”
John Dryden, the author of the earlier “Annus Mirabilis”, also wrote the play All for Love, which largely imitated a Shakespeare play about this pair of lovers, one Roman and one Egyptian. Both names required.
“Annus Mirabilis”
Philip Larkin
Mark Antony and Cleopatra [accept Antony and Cleopatra; accept in either order]
The speaker notes that “Though lovers be lost, death shall not” in this poet’s “And death shall have no dominion.” For 10 points each:
Name this Welsh poet, who urged his sickly father to “rage, rage against the dying of the light” in his 1951 poem “Do not go gentle into that good night.”
Thomas’s “Do not go gentle into that good night” takes on this poetic structure, consisting of nineteen lines divided into five tercets followed by a quatrain. Elizabeth Bishop wrote a poem of this type titled “One Art.”
This Theodore Roethke villanelle asserts, “We think by feeling. What is there to know?” Its opening stanza concludes: “I learn by going where I have to go.”
Dylan Marlais Thomas
villanelles
“The Waking”
This character’s future wife is the sister of Ismene. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who discovers that his betrothed hanged herself in a cave. In response, this character attempts to kill his father Creon, misses, and instead kills himself.
Haemon appears in Antigone, a play from this Ancient Greek playwright’s Theban trilogy. That trilogy also includes this writer’s Oedipus Rex.
Sophocles’ Antigone includes lines for this group of performers. Sophocles dictated that this group would number fifteen in his plays, whereas Aeschylus set this group’s size at twelve.
Haemon
Sophocles
the Greek chorus
In a novel, Max Spielman raises George Giles as though he is one of these animals. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of animal. In a play, the architect Martin reveals to his wife Stevie that he is in love with one of these animals named Sylvia.
This recently deceased playwright won the 2002 Tony Award for The Goat, or Who is Sylvia? Forty years earlier, this playwright won a Tony for Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
In Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, the biology professor Nick and his wife Honey are hosted by these characters, an associate history professor and his wife. Name either character.
goats [accept Giles Goat-boy or The Goat, or Who is Sylvia?]
Edward Franklin Albee III
George or Martha [accept either]
In a novel titled for this sort of place, the retired art historian Max Morden stays at Miss Vavasour’s boardinghouse after the death of his wife, Anna. For 10 points each:
Name this type of place, which also titles a novel about the reminiscing theatre director Charles Arrowby. Those novels were written by John Banville and Iris Murdoch, respectively.
Both of those novels won this prestigious literary prize awarded annually to the best English-language novel published in the United Kingdom. In 2016, Paul Beatty became the first American to win this prize.
Beatty won the Booker for his novel The Sellout, a satire set near this West Coast city. In The Day of the Locust, Tod works on a painting of this city Burning after moving to this city’s neighborhood of Hollywood.
the sea [accept “The Sea” or “The Sea, The Sea”]
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
Los Angeles [accept L.A.]
A 1973 book about one of these places relied on the eyewitness accounts of 227 residents. For 10 points each:
Name this type of place. Shukhov, a member of Gang 104, appears in a novel which spans twenty-four hours of his life in one of these places.
This Soviet author partly drew on his own experiences at a gulag camp to write The Gulag Archipelago. He also wrote One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
The young Leo Auberg is sent to a gulag camp in this Romanian author’s prose poem The Hunger Angel.
gulag camps
Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn
Herta Müller
While influenced by this substance, the narrator nearly gets in a carriage accident in the second part of the essay “The English Mail-Coach.” For 10 points each:
Identify this substance whose name appears in an 1821 account, whose second section is divided into parts about this stuff’s “Pleasures” and “Pains.”
That account appears in this writer’s Confessions of an English Opium-Eater. This English essayist included a “Palimpsest of the Human Brain” in his Suspiria de Profundis.
De Quincey also wrote an essay titled for the “Knocking at the Gate” scene from this play. That scene concludes Act II, scene 2 of this play, after the title character and his wife murder King Duncan.
opium [accept laudanum; prompt on alcohol with: “and what else?”]
Thomas Penson De Quincey
The Tragedy of Macbeth
This person praised Geoffrey Hill as “the strong British poet now active” near the end of his life. For 10 points each:
Identify this prominent literary critic, who included twenty-six authors he thought best exemplified the title corpus of works in his 1994 book The Western Canon.
This early author was the third included by Bloom in The Western Canon. This author included himself as one of the pilgrims embarking on a journey from the Tabard Inn in his collection The Canterbury Tales.
This Portuguese writer included in The Western Canon wrote his works under various aliases he termed “heteronyms.” One such heteronym, Bernando Soares, was used by this poet to write The Book of Disquiet.
Harold Bloom
Geoffrey Chaucer
Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa]
A poem addressed to this figure describes her chariot “yoked to wind-whirring sparrows.” For 10 points each:
Identify this subject of the only fully extant poem by a certain ancient Greek writer. In that writer’s twenty-eight-line poem dedicated to this figure, the last stanza functions as a request that this figure fight for the poet.
This lyric poet from the island of Lesbos wrote the “Hymn to Aphrodite.”
This later Latin poet wrote several poems about his pseudonymous lover Lesbia. An elegy this poet wrote for his deceased brother ends: “Hail and farewell.”
Aphrodite [accept “Ode to Aphrodite” or “Hymn to Aphrodite”]
Sappho
Gaius Valerius Catullus
The Caine Prize is a yearly accolade awarded to an outstanding short story author from this continent. For 10 points each:
Identify this continent, whose postcolonial authors include Ayi Kwei Armah, Tayib Salih, and Nuruddin Farah.
This Kenyan author’s English-language novels include A Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood, whereas novels written in his native Gikuyu include Wizard of the Crow.
This West African country’s literary tradition includes So Long a Letter, written by Mariama Ba, and God’s Bits of Wood, written by author and director Ousmane Sembene.
Africa
Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o
Republic of Senegal [or République du Sénégal]
This character’s wife reads the article “Sex Is Fun—Or Hell” as she waits for the phone operator to connect her to her mother. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who spends the afternoon on the beach with Sybil Carpenter. Later, he returns to his hotel room, sits down next to his sleeping wife, and shoots himself in the head.
Seymour appears in this J. D. Salinger story, in which he tells Sybil Carpenter of imaginary creatures that swim into holes and eat so much fruit that they bloat and die of a terrible fever.
Two years before he included “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” in his collection Nine Stories, J. D. Salinger wrote this novel about the phony-hating Holden Caulfield.
Seymour Glass [prompt on Glass]
“A Perfect Day for Bananafish”
The Catcher in the Rye
In the second novel in this series, a soldier disappears after diving to explore the wreck of a minesweeper. For 10 points each:
Name this series, which includes Cat and Mouse and Dog Years. The diminutive narrator of the first novel in this series turns to Sister Dorothea after his love for Maria goes unrequited.
Oskar Matzerath appears in The Tin Drum, the first novel in this German author’s Danzig Trilogy.
In The Tin Drum, Oskar’s father Alfred is shot during a seizure brought on by choking on this object, which he had attempted to swallow rather than burying it near a bunch of potatoes.
Danzig Trilogy [or Danziger Trilogie]
Günter Wilhelm Grass
his Nazi party pin [accept Nazi party pin; accept badge for "pin"]
This novel includes the sarcastic, pistol-wielding black cat Behemoth. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel partly set in Moscow, where Satan disguises himself as Woland and hosts a ball on Walpurgis Night. It includes a story-within-a-story written by one of its title characters about Pontius Pilate.
The Master and Margarita was written by this Russian author of The White Guard.
In this heavily censored satire by Bulgakov, Sharik becomes a monstrous human after receiving human testicles and a pituitary gland through a questionable surgical procedure.
The Master and Margarita  [or Master i Margarita]
Mikhail Bulgakov
Heart of a Dog [or Sobach’e serdtse]
Answer the following about Denis Diderot, for 10 points each.
Diderot worked with Jean d’Alembert to edit a massive undertaking of this type. Louis de Jaucourt astonishingly contributed almost eighteen thousand articles to it.
This Diderot work consists of a rambling philosophical conversation between a character referred to only as “me” and a relative of a composer.
Diderot’s novel Jacques the Fatalist is about a character who believes that there is an enormous one of these objects in the sky which dictates everyone’s fate.
encyclopedia
Rameau’s Nephew, or the Second Satire [or Le Neveu de Rameau ou La Satire Seconde]
a scroll
An author from this country wrote about an aspiring chief’s refusal to accept the title sum of money after his stepdaughter Aku-nna’s elopement with Chiko. For 10 points each:
Identify this home of the author of The Bride Price. Another author from this country detailed a god’s search for his deceased tapster in The Palm-Wine Drinkard.
This Nigerian author wrote about Okonkwo and his descendents in the novels Things Fall Apart and No Longer at Ease.
In Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo is banished from this fictional village after he accidentally kills Ezeulu’s son. In No Longer at Ease, this city’s Progressive Union funds Obi Okonkwo’s education at a British university.
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe]
Umuofia
In one account, this ruler was married to Queen Wealhtheow. For 10 points each:
Name this “protector of the Scyldings,” a Danish ruler responsible for the construction of the ill-fated mead-hall Heorot.
Hrothgar appears in this Old English epic whose title hero rips Grendel’s arm off, kills Grendel’s mother, and then slays a dragon with Wiglaf.
This Irish Nobel Laureate published an award-winning translation of Beowulf in 1999. His own poetry includes the collections The Spirit Level and Death of a Naturalist.
Hrothgar
Beowulf
Seamus Justin Heaney
This novel was published unfinished three years after its author’s suicide in 2008. For 10 points each:
Name this novel centered on the employees of an IRS Regional Examination Center in Peoria, Illinois. Though this novel was named as a finalist for the 2012 Pulitzer Prize, no award was given out that year.
The Ennet House and Enfield Tennis Academy serve as settings for this other novel, whose central Incandenza family includes the football punter Orin and the film director James.
This author included essays on topics ranging from Roger Federer to Zbigniew Herbert in his collection Both Flesh and Not. He also wrote The Pale King and Infinite Jest.
The Pale King
Infinite Jest
David Foster Wallace
This character wears a five-cent piece around his neck, which he insists will repel the devil. For 10 points each:
Identify this superstitious resident of St. Petersburg, Missouri, who runs away from his owner, Miss Watson.
This author wrote about Jim’s travels with a mischievous youth aboard a raft on the Mississippi River in his picaresque novel Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
Twain recounted his own trip to visit his brother Orion in Carson City in this mostly-autobiographical travelogue.
Jim
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Roughing It
This character’s first journal entry is dated to May 3rd, when he arrives in Vienna. For 10 points each:
Name this character who finds himself trapped in a Transylvanian castle. As he attempts to escape, he discovers his host seemingly dead inside of a coffin.
Harker is imprisoned in this vampire’s castle. This creation of Bram Stoker later travels to London and gradually transforms Lucy Westenra into a vampire.
This doctor arrives from Amsterdam to try to save Lucy. His expertise with vampires later proves valuable as he leads Jonathan, Mina, Quincey and others to slay Dracula when the vampire attempts to return to his castle.
Jonathan Harker [accept either underlined name]
Count Dracula
Doctor Abraham Van Helsing
This character escapes an island prison by hiding in a body bag intended for the deceased Abbé Faria. For 10 points each:
Identify this title character of an 1844 novel. He pursues revenge against the three men whose efforts led to his imprisonment in the Château d’If.
Edmond Dantès assumes the title alias in this author’s The Count of Monte Cristo. This French author wrote about d’Artagnan in Twenty Years After and its prequel, The Three Musketeers.
This corrupt banker from The Count of Monte Cristo conspires with Mondego to frame Edmond Dantès as a Bonapartist. Villefort’s illegitimate son Benedetto is betrothed to this character’s daughter Eugénie.
Edmond Dantès [accept The Count of Monte Cristo or Le Comte de Monte-Cristo]
Alexandre Dumas, père [or Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie]
Baron Danglars [or Monsieur Danglars]
In this play, Sir Politick Would-Be is pranked by Peregrine into disguising himself as a tortoise to hide from a group of merchants. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvino compete for the legacy of the title rogue.
Volpone was written this English author of The Alchemist and Bartholomew Fair.
Volpone attempts to seduce Corvino’s wife, who has this name. Jonson wrote a poem addressed to another woman of this name which opens: “Drink to me only with thine eyes.”
Volpone
Ben Jonson
Celia [accept “To Celia”]
In her article “Dangerous Obsession,” Kathryn Harrison drew parallels between this author’s novel The Bad Girl and Madame Bovary. For 10 points each:
Identify this author, who also completed a book-length analysis of Madame Bovary, titled The Perpetual Orgy. Edith Grossman’s translations of this author include English editions of Dream of the Celt and The Discreet Hero.
Vargas Llosa wrote a novel titled for Aunt Julia and an eighteen-year old with this profession named Mario who works for Radio Panamericana.
Vargas Llosa fictionalized a rebellion in this country in The War of the End of the World. This nation’s literary output includes Dom Casmurro by Machado de Assis and Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon by Jorge Amado.
Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa]
scriptwriter [or obvious equivalents; accept Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter]
Federative Republic of Brazil [or República Federativa do Brasil]
A Carnegie Hall usher who temporarily resides in the Waldorf Astoria Hotel eventually jumps in front of a train in this author’s short story “Paul’s Case.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, whose home state of Nebraska serves as the setting to a novel in her Prairie Trilogy, titled My Ántonia.
In this Cather novel, Frank Shabata murders his wife Marie after catching her making love to Emil underneath a white mulberry tree. This novel is primarily centered on Alexandra Bergson’s love for Carl Linstrum.
The second novel in Cather’s Prairie Trilogy is titled The Song of the Lark, and centers on this native of Moonstone, Colorado, an aspiring opera singer whose dreams are realized when she performs in Die Walküre.
Willa Sibert Cather
O Pioneers!
Thea Kronborg [accept either underlined name]
A poem written in this language is set in a place “where the mind is without fear” and “where knowledge is free.” For 10 points each:
Identify this language used to describe a “frail vessel [which] thou emptiest again and again.” That poem written in this language opens: “Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure.”
This Bengali poet translated selections from his Gitanjali into English, and included them in the collection Song Offerings. As a playwright, his literary output includes Red Oleanders and The Post Office.
The preface to Tagore’s Song Offerings was written by this other writer, whose own poems include “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” and “The Wild Swans at Coole.”
Bengali [or Bangla]
Rabindranath Tagore
William Butler Yeats
A character in this play grows emotional upon spotting a hundred-year-old bookcase. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which Lopakhin purchases the title estate from Madame Ranevskaya. At the end of this play, the elderly servant Firs mourns his pitiful existence while the sound of swinging axes echo from a distance.
Constance Garnett translated this Russian playwright’s The Cherry Orchard. The struggling writer Treplyev shoots the title bird in this author’s The Seagull.
In The Cherry Orchard, Gaevs hollers out words related to this game when he is nervous. A novel titled for this game is set on September 6, 1958, and relates stories about three generations of the Faehmel family.
The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnevyi sad]
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
billiards [accept Billiards at Half-Past Nine; accept pool]
This novel’s narrator reveals he had faked his muteness when he inadvertently thanks one of his fellow inmates for a piece of gum. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel in which the rebellious Randle McMurphy constantly challenges an authoritarian nurse’s power over a mental ward. It is narrated by Chief Bromden, and was written by Ken Kesey.
That nurse is this cruel woman, who orders McMurphy’s lobotomy after he assaults her.  After the procedure, McMurphy is mercy-killed by Chief Bromden.
This stuttering character with a burgeoning Oedipal complex is initially fearful of Nurse Ratched, but gains the courage to cut his own throat after McMurphy helps him lose his virginity to the prostitute Candy.
One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest
Nurse Ratched
Billy Bibbit [accept either underlined part]
The cruel title matriarch of a play by this author keeps her supposedly senile mother Maria Josefa locked up in her room. For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish author, whose play The House of Bernarda Alba appears alongside Blood Wedding and Yerma in his “Rural” Trilogy.
Several of Bernarda Alba’s children fawn over this handsome twenty-five-year-old. A point of contention in the play exists about whether this character visited the eldest daughter, Angustias, at 1 am or 4 am.
Garcia Lorca repeatedly mentions “five in the afternoon” in a “Lament for the Death of” a person with this profession named Ignacio Sanchez Mejias. Pedro Romero has this profession in Hemingway’s The Sun Also Rises.
Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca]
Pepe “el Romano” [accept either underlined name]
bullfighters [accept “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter”]
In one poem, the speaker tells this person: “look your last at me, for I come home no more.” For 10 points each:
Identify this person. The speaker of another poem admonishes this person’s verses for “giving a chap the belly-ache,” and teasingly tells this person: “You eat your victuals fast enough.”
“Terence, this is stupid stuff” appears in this poet’s 1896 collection A Shropshire Lad, which also includes a poem about a “townsman of a stiller town” titled “To An Athlete Dying Young.”
In yet another poem from A Shropshire Lad, the speaker recalls that when he was this many years old, an older man told him: “‘Give crowns and pounds and guineas but not your heart away.’”
Terence [accept “Terence, this is stupid stuff”]
A. E. Housman
21 [or one-and-twenty; accept “When I was one-and-twenty”]
As a child, this novel’s narrator owned a rakunk named Killer. For 10 points each:
Name this post-apocalyptic novel about Snowman. Before the apocalypse, Snowman was a boy named Jimmy who used to play Extinctathon with one of this novel’s title characters.
In this other novel, Serena Joy’s husband, The Commander, is served by the “two-legged womb” Offred, with whom he secretly plays scrabble.
This prolific Canadian author wrote Oryx and Crake and The Handmaid’s Tale.
Oryx and Crake
The Handmaid’s Tale
Margaret Eleanor Atwood
This character’s “Smile” titles the final section of the novel in which she appears. For 10 points each:
Identify this character, whose masculine name is inspired by her owner’s interest in Russian literature. Near the novel’s end, Tereza discovers that this character’s pronounced limp is due to cancer.
The dog Karenin is adopted by Tomas and Tereza in this novel, partly set during the Prague Spring.
A large number of witticisms appear in this author’s novel about Ludvik Jahn, titled The Joke. This author also wrote The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
Karenin
The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí]
Milan Kundera
The first published work of a playwright born in this country was titled The Harrowing of Benjy. For 10 points each:
Name this Caribbean country. A poet who was born in this country wrote  “Ruins of a Great House,” “A Far Cry from Africa,” and Omeros.
That Saint Lucian author of Omeros was this Nobel Laureate.
Walcott’s Omeros is a retelling of a work by this earlier poet. George Chapman translated into English this poet’s Iliad and Odyssey.
Saint Lucia
Derek Walcott
Homer
One section of this poem lists a number of conditions under which its subject should “be near me,” including “when my light is low” and “when my faith is dry.” For 10 points each:
Identify this lengthy elegy written upon the death of Arthur Henry Hallam. This poem’s eighty-fifth canto contains the famous lines: “’Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.”
This Victorian poet of “In Memoriam A. H. H.” wrote about a band of six hundred cavalrymen leading a disastrous assault “half a league onward” in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
“The Charge of the Light Brigade” uses this three-word phrase to describe the location into which rode “the six hundred.”
“In Memoriam A. H. H.”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
the valley of Death
According to a note by the author, a person with this profession works in a “Plexiglas sphere set into the belly of a B-17 or B-24.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession of a character who wakes up to “black flak and the nightmare fighters.” In that poem, a person with this profession is “hunched” until his “wet fur froze,” and is “washed out… with a hose” after dying.
This other author wrote about Jenny Fields’ son with a ball turret gunner in the novel The World According to Garp. Doctor Wilbur Larch moonlights as an abortionist in this author’s The Cider House Rules.
The tail gunner Sammy Singer appears in this author’s novel Closing Time. Singer also briefly appears in this author’s novel about the bombardier John Yossarian, Catch-22.
the ball turret gunner [accept “The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner”; prompt on just “gunner”] [by Randall Jarrell]
John Irving
Joseph Heller
The speaker’s answers to this question include: “freely, as men strive for right” and “to the level of every day’s most quiet need.” For 10 points each:
Give this five-word question that opens a certain poem. Immediately after posing this question, the speaker states: “Let me count the ways.”
“How do I love thee? Let me count the ways” is the opening line of one poem in this collection. This collection consists of 44 fourteen-line poems written to the poet’s partner Robert.
This Victorian poet wrote the Sonnets from the Portuguese and Aurora Leigh. Virginia Woolf wrote a fictional biography of this poet’s spaniel Flush.
“How do I love thee?”
Sonnets from the Portuguese
Elizabeth Barrett Browning
One poem set during this conflict describes an “hour of darkness and peril and need” in which “the people will waken and listen to hear” for the title event. For 10 points each:
Identify this war, the setting of a poem which opens: “Listen my children and you shall hear / of the midnight ride of Paul Revere.”
This “poet of the American Revolution” described a “fair flower, that dost so comely grow” in “The Wild Honeysuckle.” This poet also wrote “The British Slave-Ship.”
A Freneau poem titled for this type of place describes a person with a bow “for action ready bent” and arrows “with a head of stone” “again seated with his friends.”
American Revolution
Philip Morin Freneau
“The Indian Burying Ground” [accept burial ground; do not accept answers like “cemetery” or “graveyard”]
In this novel, Fuka-Eri’s dyslexia rules out the notion that she wrote the manuscript for Air Chrysalis. For 10 points each:
Identify this lengthy three-part novel featuring “Little People,” whose voices can be heard by the leader of the Sakigake cult. Its title riffs on a George Orwell work.
In this other novel by the author of 1Q84, Toru Watanabe recalls his relationships with Naoko, Reiko and Midori when he hears the title Beatles song during a flight to Germany.
This perennial Nobel Prize candidate wrote Kafka on the Shore as well as 1Q84 and Norwegian Wood.
1Q84
Norwegian Wood
Haruki Murakami
This poem claims that “We cannot know [its subject’s] legendary head / with eyes like ripening fruit.” For 10 points each:
Identify this poem about an object “suffused with brilliance from inside.” It ends with the didactic intonation: “You must change your life.”
This German-language poet of the Duino Elegies wrote the poem “Archaic Torso of Apollo” and included similarly didactic lines in his Letters to a Young Poet.
Rilke’s first Duino Elegy claims that every one of these beings “is terror,” and opens by asking: “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among [these beings’] orders?”
“Archaic Torso of Apollo”
Rainer Maria Rilke
angels
This play’s antagonist is thwarted when it is revealed that she had stolen a diamond broach from Lord Goring’s niece. For 10 points each:
Identify this play in which Mrs. Cheveley attempts to blackmail Robert Chiltern into supporting a doomed canal scheme in South America. It ends with a reconciliation between Robert and Lady Chiltern.
This Irish playwright wrote An Ideal Husband, as well as a play about a false persona assumed by both Algernon Moncrief and Jack Worthing, The Importance of Being Earnest.
Wilde wrote this poem while imprisoned in the title prison on charges of homosexuality. It ends by describing the various ways in which “each man kills the thing he loves.”
An Ideal Husband
Oscar Wilde [or Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Willis Wilde]
“The Ballad of Reading Gaol” (“redding jail”)
. This author called 19th-century novels “loose, baggy monsters” in the preface to his novel about the would-be painter Nick Dormer and the aspiring actress Miriam Rooth entitled <em>The Tragic Muse</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American author who wrote that preface for the New York Edition of his work, which also includes his novel The Awkward Age.
James wrote about people in this profession in his story “The Figure in the Carpet”, “The Lesson of the Master”, and another story titled for one “of Beltraffio”. The narrator attempts to get the title “papers” of a man in this profession named Jeffrey Aspern in another James story.
James's works “Sir Edmund Orme” and “The Jolly Corner” include climactic encounters with these types of beings. In James's novella The Turn of the Screw, an unnamed governess believes that she sees Peter Quint and Miss Jessel, who are both this type of fantastic being.
Henry James
authors [or writers; accept novelists or poets or other equivalents; accept “The Author of Beltraffio”]
ghosts [accept phantasms or specters or other synonyms] &lt;Hart&gt;
Name these authors who set works in Naples, for 10 points each.
Luisa Sanfelice's [sahn-fuh-LEE-chay's] attempts to help the French set up the Parthenopean Republic in Naples is the subject of this author's novel La Sanfelice. This man's two-year imprisonment in Naples ruined his health and contributed to his death before his son, known as “fils” (“feel”), published Camille.
This author wrote The Elegy of Lady Fiammetta, whose title character waits in Naples for her lover, Panfilo. A real-life woman in Naples named Madonna Flora is the basis of a character in this Italian author's story collection the Decameron.
This contemporary novelist's “Neapolitan Novels” include The Story of the Lost Child and My Brilliant Friend. The real identity of this pseudonymous Italian woman is not known.
Alexandre Dumas, pere [or Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie]
Giovanni Boccaccio
Elena Ferrante &lt;Hart&gt;
Name these authors of novels that discuss Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo, for 10 points each.
The aftermath of Trujillo's assassination is recounted in The Feast of the Goat, a novel by this Peruvian Nobel laureate, who wrote Conversation in the Cathedral and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
Trujillo's thugs kill Oscar De León, the title character of this Dominican-American author's novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
This Dominican-American author of How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents wrote the historical novel In the Time of the Butterflies, in which the dissident Mirabal sisters are beaten to death by the Trujillo regime.
Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa; prompt on partial last name]
Junot Díaz
Julia Alvarez &lt;Hart&gt;
This author explained that his decision to use forward slashes instead of apostrophes stemmed from the inconvenience of having to use “uppercase eight” on his keyboard to make apostrophes. For 10 points each:
Name this 20th-century American author whose book Requiem for a Dream was adapted into a Darren Aronofsky film of the same title.
Selby burst onto the literary scene with a book titled for the “last exit” to this borough of New York City. The Nolan family appears in a Betty Smith novel entitled “a tree grows in” this borough.
Four years after Selby broke down barriers by writing about a transvestite prostitute in a section of Last Exit to Brooklyn entitled “The Queen is Dead”, this author further pushed sexual boundaries by creating a transsexual protagonist in his bawdy satire Myra Breckenridge.
Hubert Selby Jr. [or Cubby Selby]
Brooklyn [accept Last Exit to Brooklyn or A Tree Grows in Brooklyn]
Gore Vidal [or Eugene Louis Vidal] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about Anthony Holden, for 10 points each.
Holden was the first president of the “international federation” of this game. In William Faulkner's story “Was” from the book Go Down, Moses, two instances of this game resolve the status of a slave known as Tomey's Turl.
Holden's biography of Leigh Hunt, The Wit in the Dungeon, discusses the composition of Hunt's poem “Jenny Kiss'd Me”, which was inspired by the wife of this Victorian British author of Sartor Resartus.
In 2000, Holden set off a firestorm when he criticized fellow Whitbread Prize panelists for nearly allowing Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban to beat Seamus Heaney's translation of this epic Old English poem, whose title character fights Grendel.
poker [accept International Federation of Poker; accept five-card stud poker or five-card poker or stud poker; prompt on “five-card” or “stud”]
Thomas Carlyle
Beowulf &lt;Hart&gt;
Identify the following authors of literary nonfiction books composed largely of interviews, for 10 points each.
Sales of Keith Gessen's English translation of this Belarusian author's oral history Voices from Chernobyl spiked after she was awarded the 2015 Nobel Prize in Literature.
This Japanese author chronicled the sarin gas attacks carried out by Aum Shinrikyo in the Tokyo subway system in his 1998 book Underground. His best-known novels include The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, Kafka on the Shore, and 1Q84.
David Barsamian and Anthony Armove are among the interlocutors whose conversations with this Indian author were collected in 2008's The Shape of the Beast. This author won a Booker Prize for her novel The God of Small Things.
Svetlana Alexievich [or Svetlana Alexandrovna Alexievich]
Haruki Murakami [accept names in either order]
Arundhati Roy [or Suzanna Arundhati Roy] &lt;Carson&gt;
Three European poets engaged in a notable epistolary correspondence in the summer of 1926. For 10 points each:
One of the participants was this German-language poet of Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies, who was slowly dying of leukemia in a Swiss sanatorium at the time.
Another correspondent was this author of the collection My Sister, Life, who was forced by Soviet authorities to turn down the 1958 Nobel Prize for Literature. His most famous novel is about the enduring but inconsistently requited love between the title physician and a woman named Lara.
Pasternak asked Rilke to send a copy of the Duino Elegies to this Russian symbolist, who was living in exile in Paris. Collections of her poetry include The Girlfriend, Mileposts, and Psyche, the last of which contains the pro-White Army poem “The Swans' Encampment”.
Rainer Maria Rilke [or René Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]
Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]
Marina Tsvetaeva [or Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva] &lt;Carson&gt;
Brian Evenson was censured by leaders of this religion for the violence in his first novel, <em>Altmann's Tongue</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this religion whose history was recounted in the 1983 novel Saints, which was written by Orson Scott Card, a practicing member of this religion. Card's novel is told the eyes of a woman named Dinah Kirkham, who becomes one of the many wives of this religion's founder.
This author of the nonfiction books Into the Wild and Into Thin Air wrote about the history of Mormonism in Under the Banner of Heaven.
This chronicler of the American West wrote about “the history of the Mormon Trail” in his nonfiction work The Gathering of Zion. His novels include The Big Rock Candy Mountain and Angle of Repose.
Mormonism [accept Mormons or Mormon Church or The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints or LDS movement or church]
Jon Krakauer
Wallace Stegner [or Wallace Earle Stegner] &lt;Hart&gt;
The host of the central gathering of this novel reads a section from a history of the title house that he is producing in which several generations of dwarfs arise after the birth of the ironically named Hercules. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, its author's first, which is titled for a country estate owned by Mr. Wimbush. It is narrated by the young poet Denis Stone, who is enamored with Wimbush's daughter, Anne.
Crome Yellow was the first novel by this British writer, who later penned Antic Hay and Brave New World.
Huxley wrote a short book about his experiences taking mescaline, The Doors of Perception, whose title came from this English poet's long poem The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
Crome Yellow
Aldous Huxley [or Aldous Leonard Huxley]
William Blake &lt;Hart&gt;
This woman wrote and directed <em>Son nom de Venise dans Calcutta désert</em>, an experimental film that plays the sounds of her earlier film <em>India Song</em> over images of ruins. For 10 points each:
Name this female French author, who discussed her childhood in Vietnam in the novels The Sea Wall and The Lover and wrote the screenplay for the film Hiroshima mon amour.
Duras's work was influenced by her experiences in France during this war. Anthony Doerr's novel All the Light We Cannot See is set in France during this war.
Hiroshima mon amour was partly inspired by Duras's first husband being imprisoned in one of these places called Buchenwald. Primo Levi's If This a Man was published in the U.S. as Survival in Auschwitz, which was one of these places.
Marguerite Duras [or Marguerite Donnadieu]
World War II [or Second World War]
Nazi concentration camps [or Konzentrationslager; prompt on more general answers such as “[German] prisons” or “[P.O.W.] camps”] &lt;Hart&gt;
By marrying <em>New Yorker</em> editor Katharine Sergeant Angell, this man became the stepfather of <em>New Yorker</em> sports essayist Roger Angell. For 10 points each:
Name this author of a 1970 novel whose title creature orders a dozen watercress sandwiches and sleeps in the bathtub while staying at the Ritz-Carlton in Boston and also befriends Sam Beaver.
“White wrote the standard writing guide The Elements of Style by revising an original volume by this Cornell English professor. The volume is commonly known as this man's last name “and White”.
White collected satirical essays on love and relationships into the volume Is Sex Necessary?, which was a collaboration with this frequent New Yorker contributor who wrote “The Catbird Seat” and “A Couple of Hamburgers”.
E.B. White [or Elwyn Brooks White; the novel is The Trumpet of the Swan.]
William Strunk Jr. [accept Strunk and White]
James Thurber [or James Grover Thurber] &lt;Hart&gt;
The work of Marcus Terentius Varro served as an inspiration for this long poem, whose final book contains an <em>epyllion</em> about Aristaeus and considers the life and habits of bees as a model for human society. For 10 points each:
Identify this didactic four-book poem about agriculture, dedicated to Maecenas (mai-kay-nas). 51 lines of this poem were reused in its author's Aeneid.
The Georgics and the Aeneid were written by this Roman poet.
This other poet in Maecenas's circle included the line “Semper in absentes felicior aestus amantes”, or “absence makes the heart grow fonder”, in an entry in the second of his four books of elegies, many of which were dedicated to an older woman he called “Cynthia”.
the Georgics [or Georgica]
Virgil [or Publius Vergilius Maro]
Sextus Propertius &lt;Carson&gt;
. A writer from this country satirized the national obsession with saying sorry in his novel <em>At Least We Can Apologize</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of the novelist who wrote Please Look After Mom. In David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas, the section “An Orison of Sonmi-451” is set in a corporate dystopia that has formed in this Asian country.
A series of Korean literature translated into English is being published by the Dalkey Archive Press, which takes its name from the title of a book by this Irish author of The Third Policeman and At Swim-Two-Birds.
The author of Please Look After Mom, Kyung-sook Shin, admitted in 2015 that she had plagiarized a passage from this Japanese author's book Patriotism. This author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy committed seppuku on live TV after failing to lead a coup d'etat.
South Korea [or Republic of Korea or Daehanminguk; prompt on “Korea” or “Daehan”; do not accept or prompt on “North Korea” or “Democratic People's Republic of Korea” or “DPRK”] [At Least We Can Apologize is by Lee Ki-ho, and Please Look After Mom is by Kyung-sook Shin]
Flann O'Brien [or Brian O'Nolan; accept Myles na gCopaleen]
Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept either name in reverse order] &lt;Hart&gt;
This publication was launched by the John Reed Club of New York, which was affiliated with the Communist Party USA. For 10 points each:
Name this New York magazine dedicated to culture, politics, and literature that eventually became anti-communist. Dwight Macdonald served as an editor of this publication in the late 1930s, and it stopped publishing in 2003.
“Irving Howe commissioned the first translation of this Yiddish author into English for the Partisan Review; the story of this man's that was published was “Gimpel the Fool”.
Howe commissioned this young Jewish-American author to translate “Gimpel the Fool”. This man later wrote The Adventures of Augie March, Henderson the Rain King, and Herzog.
Partisan Review [prompt on “PR”]
Isaac Bashevis Singer
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows] &lt;Hart&gt;
An author from this country wrote about the wannabe poet Olaf Karason in the novel <em>World Light</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this European country that was home to Halldor Laxness, the author of Independent People.
In Independent People, the protagonist, Bjartur of Summerhouses, is a farmer of these animals. In Far from the Madding Crowd, Gabriel Oak cures a number of Bathsheba Everdene's creatures of this type suffering from bloat.
Laxness was credited in his Nobel Prize with renewing “the great narrative art of Iceland”, a reference to these historical Icelandic prose narratives, some of which Laxness edited.
Republic of Iceland [or Lydveldid Island]
sheep
sagas &lt;Gehring&gt;
Name these authors who were inspired by the <em>One Thousand and One Nights</em>, for 10 points each.
Two Years Eight Months and Twenty-Eight Nights, the most recent novel by this author, is named for a span of time equal to 1,001 nights. He also referenced Scheherazade in Midnight's Children.
Many works by this author, including The Tidewater Tales and Chimera, have Scheherazade as a character. This American metafictionalist's other works include The Floating Opera, Giles Goat-Boy, and The Sot-Weed Factor.
This author's story collection The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye was influenced by the One Thousand and One Nights. She won the 1990 Booker Prize for her novel Possession.
Salman Rushdie [or Ahmad Salman Rushdie]
John Barth [or John Simmons Barth]
A.S. Byatt [or Dame Antonia Susan Duffy] &lt;Hart&gt;
This poet began a monody with the line, “How changed is here each spot man makes or fills”. For 10 points each:
“Name this Victorian poet who wrote “Thyrsis” (THURR-sis) and “Dover Beach”.
This Arnold poem, an earlier companion-piece to “Thyrsis”, describes a student who left Oxford and “roamed the world with that wild brotherhood”, waiting for the “spark from Heaven”.
“Thyrsis” memorialized this poet, who wrote, “Thou shalt not kill; but needst not strive / officiously to keep alive” in “The Latest Decalogue”. Claude writes to Eustace of upheaval in Rome in his verse-novel Amours de Voyage.
Matthew Arnold
“The Scholar-Gipsy”
Arthur Hugh Clough &lt;Kothari&gt;
The second volume of this series, <em>A Man in Love</em>, contains an extended conversation between the narrator and his friend Geir, who claims that the narrator is an “arch-Protestant” despite being an atheist. For 10 points each:
Name this incredibly long series of contemporary novels that begins with the volume A Death in the Family, which has a 100-page sequence about the writer and his friend sneaking beers on New Year's Eve and culminates with the death of the writer's alcoholic father.
Karl Ove Knausgard's My Struggle, and its Norwegian-language title, Min Kamp, are references to this author's autobiography Mein Kampf, in which he discusses his love for German shepherd dogs and goes on many antisemitic tirades.
Knausgard's My Struggle has drawn comparisons to this seven-volume novel, which uses the phrase “inverts” to describe homosexuals in its fourth volume, Sodom and Gomorrah.
My Struggle [or Min Kamp]
Adolf Hitler
In Search of Lost Time [or Remembrance of Things Past or À la Recherche du Temps Perdu (by Marcel Proust)] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about the novel <em>The Namesake</em>, for 10 points each.
It was written by this Indian-American author, whose short story collections include Unaccustomed Earth and Interpreter of Maladies.
Its protagonist is nicknamed after this Russian author of the play The Inspector General, the story “The Overcoat”, and the novel Dead Souls.
Gogol's name causes much confusion because of the distinction between the “bhaalo naam” and “daak naam”, or “good name” and “pet name”, in this Indian ethnic group, to which Lahiri belongs. Michael Madhusudan Dutt was a 19th-century writer in this group's language.
Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]
Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]
Bengali [or Bangla; do not accept or prompt on “Bangladeshi” or equivalents] &lt;Hart&gt;
This novel centers on the machinations of a mysterious wealthy man named Maurice Conchis, its title sorceror-figure. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Nicholas Urfe, a young British man teaching English on the Greek island of Phraxos, is inaugurated into the “godgame”, a series of psychological melodramas involving a pair of beautiful identical twins.
The Magus was a bestselling novel by this post-World War II British author, who also wrote The Collector and The French Lieutenant's Woman.
In The Magus, Urfe teaches at a boys' school named after this British poet, whose long narrative poems include Don Juan (JOO-un) and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
The Magus
John Fowles [or John Robert Fowles]
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron; or George Gordon Noel] &lt;Hart&gt;
Near the beginning of this play's third act, one of the central characters rings the doorbell and presents himself with a handful of snapdragons, which he calls “flowers for the dead” in Spanish. For 10 points each:
Name this play whose third act, “The Exorcism”, includes a game of “bringing up baby” and the revelation that an imaginary son has been killed by a driver who swerved to avoid a porcupine.
This American playwright of The Zoo Story and A Delicate Balance wrote Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?.
An Albee play whose title includes the question “who is Sylvia?” concerns a Pritzker Prize-winning architect who falls in love with one of these animals.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee [or Edward Franklin Albee III]
goats [accept The Goat, or Who is Sylvia?] &lt;Hart&gt;
Cyril Graham creates a fake portrait of this person in order to convince a man named Erskine of this person's identity in an 1889 short story by Oscar Wilde that was based on a theory first proposed by Thomas Tyrwhitt. For 10 points each:
Give the name used to refer to this person who is described as the “only begetter” in a passage signed “T.T”. Due to his name, the Earl of Southampton is a leading candidate for the true identity of this person, who may be the same person as the “Fair Youth”.
Mr. W.H. is the dedicatee of the first printed collection of these poems, the eighteenth of which begins “Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?”
Anthony Burgess's fictional biography of Shakespeare is titled for this four-word phrase taken from Sonnet 130, in which it ends the opening-line declaration beginning “My mistress's eyes are..”.
Mr. W.H. [accept “The Portrait of Mr. W. H”.]
William Shakespeare's sonnets
nothing like the sun &lt;Carson&gt;
Handspring Puppet Company produced a Jane Taylor play in which a version of this character tries to hides his role in a government death squad from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this vulgar, rotund man who is the main character of three plays by Alfred Jarry.
In Ubu Roi, Ubu murders the king of this country before assuming his throne. A Nobel laureate from this country wrote With Fire and Sword and Quo Vadis.
Jarry was a precursor of this movement, for which André Breton wrote two manifestos. The use of dream-like imagery by writers from this movement helped inspire its painters, including Salvador Dalí.
Pere Ubu
Poland
surrealism [accept word forms] &lt;Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about author V.S. Pritchett, for 10 points each.
After spending several years in the leather trade, Pritchett had a literary debate about whether working-class characters could be presented in serious terms with this British author, who took an elitist position and penned The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
Pritchett wrote an acclaimed literary biography of this man subtitled “a spirit set free”. Pritchett's own prolific story output was inspired by this man's stories, such as “Ward No. 6” and “The Black Monk”.
Pritchett resented his father for forcing him to burn a manuscript about a battle for this structure. The American author of the periodical Salmagundi wrote a series of “tales” of this place after visiting it in 1828.
H.G. Wells [or Herbert George Wells]
Anton Chekhov [or Anton Pavlovich Chekhov]
the Alhambra [or al-Hamra or Calat Alhamra; accept Tales of the Alhambra (by Washington Irving)] &lt;Hart&gt;
John Wieners's collection <em>Behind the State Capitol, or, Cincinnati Pike</em> was published by a Boston press named for “good poets” with this characteristic. For 10 points each:
Name this characteristic shared by the contemporary poets Eileen Myles, Frank Bidart, and Richard Blanco.
This gay poet, whose homoerotic poem “Please Master” caused a 2015 scandal when it was read in a high school English class, also wrote “A Supermarket in California” and “Howl”.
This 88-year-old former Poet Laureate of New York wrote the poetry collection Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror, which discusses his homosexuality.
LGBT or gay or lesbian or homosexuality [accept equivalents; accept Good Gay Poets Press]
Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]
John Ashbery [or John Lawrence Ashbery] &lt;Hart&gt;
One of these proceedings involving the play <em>Once at Antietam</em> and the film <em>The Blood in the Red White and Blue</em> is at the center of William Gaddis's novel <em>A Frolic of His Own</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of proceeding exemplified by the interminable conflict in Chancery between the parties of Jarndyce and Jarndyce in Charles Dickens's Bleak House.
In this Dickens novel, the unscrupulous law firm of Dodson &amp; Fogg represents the devious Mrs. Bardell in her lawsuit against the central character. The introduction of the humorous Sam Weller into this serialized book, his first, made Dickens famous.
Two scandalous divorce cases are at the center of In Chancery, the second novel of a series of three novels and two “interludes” by this author that also includes To Let and The Man of Property.
civil lawsuits [or law cases or court cases; accept any answer suggesting legal proceedings or trials; prompt on “suits” or “cases”]
The Pickwick Papers [or The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club]
John Galsworthy [The series is the Forsyte Saga.] &lt;Hart&gt;
Prior to this battle, the winning commander repeatedly hoodwinks Jiang Gan and orders Huang Gai to be beaten for insubordination as part of a fake defection ruse. For 10 points each:
Name this naval battle in which Zhuge Liang's (zhoo-gay lee-ahng's) supposed summoning of the southeastern wind is instrumental in securing the success of Zhou Yu's fire attack on the forces of Cao Cao (tsow tsow). A 2009 John Woo movie adapts the story of this battle.
The Battle of Chibi is a major event in this great classical Chinese novel by Luo Guanzhong, which dramatizes the conflict between the states of Wei, Wu, and Shu.
In a fictional incident placed in the aftermath of the Battle of Xiaoting, a Wu general with this name is bedeviled by Zhuge Liang's Stone Sentinel Maze. A much later author born Zhou Shuren adopted this name as a pen-name to write stories like “A Madman's Diary” and “The True Story of Ah Q”.
Battle of Chibi [or the Battle of Red Cliffs]
Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or San Guo Yan Yi]
Lu Xun [or Lu Hsun; prompt on partial answers; do not accept “Lu Boyan” or “Lu Yi”] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about the short story collection <em>Red Cavalry</em>, for 10 points each.
It was written by this Soviet author from Odessa, who wrote about his hometown in the Odessa Stories.
It was inspired by Babel joining the Soviet Red Cavalry as a correspondent on the urging of this other Soviet author, whose works include the short story “Twenty-Six Men and a Girl” and the play The Lower Depths.
In its story “Gedali”, the title shopkeeper wonders how to tell the Revolution from the counterrevolution when the Soviets have committed so many atrocities against this ethnic group, whose members included Babel himself. In Imperial Russia, most members of this religio-ethnic group were forced to live in the Pale of Settlement.
Isaac Babel [or Isaac Emmanuilovich Babel]
Maxim Gorky [or Alexei Maximovich Peshkov]
Russian Jews [accept Jewish or other word forms] &lt;Hart&gt;
An unseen member of this family is described as “a telephone man who--fell in love with long-distance!” For 10 points each:
Name this family whose other members include an aspiring poet who works at a shoe warehouse and his sister, a woman with a limp whose high school nickname was “Blue Roses”. The matriarch of this family is obsessed with the possibility of her daughter receiving “gentlemen callers”, including Jim O'Connor.
Tom, Laura, and Amanda Wingfield appear in this Tennessee Williams “memory play”, which is titled for Laura's prized collection of decorative animal figurines.
The play ends with Tom Wingfield noting that “nowadays the world is lit by lightning!” and asking Laura to perform this specific action, before he says goodbye.
the Wingfield family [or the Wingfields]
The Glass Menagerie
blow out the candles [or “blow out your candles, Laura”; accept word forms like “blowing out the candles”] &lt;Carson&gt;
. The character of Quin Savory in one novel set on this conveyance was alleged to be a defamatory representation of the author J.B. Priestley. For 10 points each:
Name this train route that provides the setting of the novel Stamboul Train. In an Agatha Christie mystery titled for a “murder on” this train route, Hercule Poirot solves the murder of Samuel Ratchett.
This author of Stamboul Train wrote about a famous architect named Querry arriving at a Congolese leper colony in A Burnt-Out Case, and about Maurice Bendrix's mistress Sarah calling off their relationship after his flat is hit during the Blitz in The End of the Affair.
In a novel titled for this man “and the tiger”, he rides on the maiden voyage of the Orient Express. George MacDonald Fraser wrote a series of novels about this rakish, lecherous Victorian soldier, who first appeared in Thomas Hughes's Tom Brown's School Days
Orient Express [accept Murder on the Orient Express]
Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene]
Sir Harry Paget Flashman [accept either underlined part; accept Flashman and the Tiger] &lt;Hart&gt;
Name the following about women authors who commented on conflicts in the Balkans, for 10 points each.
Martha Gellhorn, who covered every major war from 1930 until she declared herself “too old” to go to Bosnia in the 1990s, was briefly married to this American author. This man's own wartime experiences inspired his novels A Farewell to Arms and For Whom the Bell Tolls.
During the Siege of Sarajevo in the Bosnian War, this American writer directed a production of Waiting for Godot by candlelight in the city. Her essay “Notes on 'Camp'“ appeared in her 1966 collection Against Interpretation.
This British author and titled dame acknowledged the devastation of the Nazi invasion of the Balkans with a dedication to “my friends in Yugoslavia, who are now all dead or enslaved” at the beginning of her 1941 travel account, history, and ethnography of the region entitled Black Lamb and Grey Falcon.
Ernest Hemingway [or Ernest Miller Hemingway]
Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]
Dame Rebecca West [or Dame Cicely Isabel Fairfield] &lt;Hart&gt;
This character, who at one point works on a treatise on metals, travels to Brazil for two years and develops a relationship with Amparo. For 10 points each:
Name this unreliable narrator who works on an occult-themed game called “The Plan” with the vanity publishers Diotallevi and Belbo.
Casaubon is the narrator of Foucault's Pendulum, a novel by this Italian semiotician, who wrote about William of Baskerville's deductive skills in The Name of the Rose.
In Foucault's Pendulum, Colonel Ardenti claims to have discovered evidence that the remnants of this medieval organization are trying to find the “telluric currents” to control the world.
Casaubon
Umberto Eco
Knights Templar &lt;Jose&gt;
In 2007, former U.S. Poet Laureate Robert Haas published a collection titled for a phrase from construction pairing this word with “materials”. For 10 points each:
Name this concept. In Khalil Gibran's The Prophet, an astronomer asks for a discourse on this concept, and the Prophet responds that it is “the measureless and the immeasurable”.
The aviation term Time of Useful Consciousness titles a 2012 book that is the second volume of this man's Americus series. This proprietor of San Francisco's City Lights Bookstore is a 96-year-old Beat poet who wrote the collection A Coney Island of the Mind.
“This poet addressed a “true daughter of Old Time” in his “Sonnet—﻿To Science”. He also wrote “The Conqueror-Worm” and “The Raven”.
time [accept Time and Materials]
Lawrence Ferlinghetti [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti]
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;Hart&gt;
This man wrote that “Joy's wisdom is attired / Splended for others' eyes if not for thee” in “Melancholia”, and he included a set of “Metrical Elucidations” at the end of his “Poor Poll”. For 10 points each:
Name this British Poet Laureate from 1913 to 1930, who wrote “Man's Reason is in such deep insolvency to sense” in The Testament of Beauty.
“Poor Poll” was in a verse form that Bridges named after this writer. Bridges wrote a book-length study of the prosody this poet used in such works as Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained.
Bridges helped establish the posthumous fame of this Jesuit priest-poet, who wrote that “God's Grandeur” “will flame out, like shining from shook foil”. In another poem, he declared “Glory be to God for dappled things”.
Robert Seymour Bridges
John Milton
Gerard Manley Hopkins &lt;Kothari&gt;
This animal's name suggests that he is the “first and foremost of all the hacks in the world”. For 10 points each:
Name this tired old animal whose rider challenges the Knight of the White Moon in a book supposedly translated from an Arabic manuscript by Cide Hamete Benengeli.
Rocinante was created by this Spanish author, who wrote Don Quixote.
Rocinante is contrasted with a donkey owned by Sancho Panza that is frequently called by this word, although it's not actually his name. The disappearances and reappearances of this donkey are a playful textual element introduced by Cervantes.
Rocinante
Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]
Dapple [or Rucio] &lt;Hart&gt;
In the middle of this play, Colonel Redfern, the father of one member of the central couple, arrives to “rescue” his daughter. For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 play whose gritty realism transformed British theater. In it, Jimmy Porter has an affair with his wife Alison's best friend Helena Charles, but the couple reconcile at its end.
Look Back in Anger was written by this playwright, a member of a group of British authors known as the Angry Young Men.
This author of the novel Saturday Night and Sunday Morning claimed that Osborne's Look Back in Anger “set off a landmine” that blew up British theater.
Look Back in Anger
John Osborne [or John James Osborne]
Alan Sillitoe &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about the literature of Kansas, for 10 points each.
This girl, the protagonist of L. Frank Baum's The Wizard of Oz books, tells her dog Toto that she has “a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore”.
The murder of the Clutter family in Holcomb, Kansas by the drifters Perry Smith and Dick Hickock is the subject of this book, which is sometimes called the first “nonfiction novel”.
This “Playwright of the Midwest”, who grew up in Kansas, had a series of Broadway hits in the 1950s starting with his play Come Back, Little Sheba.
Dorothy Gale [accept either underlined portion]
In Cold Blood [by Truman Capote]
William Inge [or William Motter Inge] &lt;Hart&gt;
This dramatist created a dashing, violent French swordsman named Bussy d'Ambois <strong>(dahm-bwah)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright of the late 1500s and early 1600s, whose comedies include The Widow's Tears and The Gentleman Usher.
“This Romantic poet was inspired by Chapman's translations of the Iliad and the Odyssey to write the sonnet “On First Looking into Chapman's Homer”. He also wrote “Ode on a Grecian Urn”.
Chapman also translated a work attributed to Homer entitled Batrachomyomachia (bah-trah-coh-MY-oh-MAHK-ee-uh), in which Zeus sends an army of crabs to intervene in a war between frogs and these other animals.
George Chapman
John Keats
mice [accept mouse] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about the rural British Romantic poet John Clare, for 10 points each.
In the mid-1800s, while institutionalized for paranoid delusions, Clare claimed that he wrote the dramatic works of this Elizabethan playwright of Measure for Measure and Love's Labours Lost.
Benjamin Britten's Spring Symphony used part of Clare's work of this type that is written for “shepherds”. Edmund Spenser's first major poetic work was also a “Shepheardes” work of this type based on the Eclogues of Virgil.
Clare's poem Helpstone, about the negative effects of enclosure on rural communities, was inspired by this Anglo-Irish author's poem “The Deserted Village”.
William Shakespeare
calendars [accept A Shepherd's Calendar or The Shepherd's Calendar or The Shepheardes Calendar]
Oliver Goldsmith &lt;Hart&gt;
This play's central character throws a servant from a balcony after learning that Princess Estrella <strong>(es-TRAY-uh)</strong> is engaged to Astolfo. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Pedro Calderon de la Barca in which the King of Poland, Basilio, locks Prince Segismundo in a tower.
Life is a Dream was written during this period of Spanish literary history, which began in the 1500s. Its other great playwrights included Lope de Vega.
This playwright of the Golden Age was the first to record the Don Juan legend in his play The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest.
Life is a Dream [or La Vida es Sueño]
Spanish Golden Age [or Siglo de Oro; accept Golden Century]
Tirso de Molina [accept either underlined portion; or Gabriel Téllez] &lt;Hart&gt;
Mark Griffith examined this play's unusually high amount of <em>Eigenwörter</em> <strong>(EYE-gen-vurr-turr)</strong>, or words that appear a certain number of times in <em>it</em> but in none of its author's other six plays, while M.L. West suggested that it was written by the author's son Euphorion. For 10 points each:
Name this play whose title character is visited by Io, Hermes, and the Oceanids after Kratos, Bia, and Hephaestus leave him in the Caucasus Mountains.
Prometheus Bound was written by this ancient Greek tragedian, whose plays Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and The Eumenides make up his Oresteia.
In Aeschylus's only play about contemporary events, Atossa and the chorus summon the ghost of this character, who condemns the hubris exhibited by another character in building a bridge across the Hellespont and prophesies “the mother of disasters” to come in Boeotia.
Prometheus Bound [or Prometheus Desmotes]
Aeschylus
Darius I [or Darius the Great; from The Persians] &lt;Carson&gt;
This man fictionalized the lives of the Collyer brothers, two New York City hoarders, in his novel <em>Homer &amp; Langley</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American author whose other historical novels include a fictionalization of William Tecumseh Sherman's campaign through Georgia entitled The March.
Coalhouse Walker seeks vengeance for his vandalized Model T and encounters many famous figures of the 1900s in this 1975 Doctorow novel, named for a genre of music.
The title character of Doctorow's novel Billy Bathgate is a messenger and confidante of Dutch Schultz, a historical figure in this line of work whose rivalry with Lucky Luciano is recounted in the novel.
E.L. Doctorow [or Edgar Lawrence Doctorow]
Ragtime
mafia or mobster or member of organized crime or gangster [accept racketeer or other equivalents; prompt on “crime” or “criminal”] &lt;Hart&gt;
. This play's plot is set into motion when Johan, the younger brother of the protagonist's wife, returns to town and falls in love with Dina Dorf, the daughter of a woman whom Johan had earlier taken the blame for having an affair with. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Karsten Bernick, a scheming industrialist, plans to send Johan and Dina to their deaths aboard an unseaworthy ship called The Indian Girl.
The Pillars of Society was an early play by this Norwegian, who also wrote The Wild Duck and Hedda Gabler.
While living in Sorrento, Italy, Ibsen wrote this play that ends with Helene wrestling over whether to help her syphilitic son, Oswald, commit suicide.
The Pillars of Society [or The Pillars of the Community or Samfundets Stotter]
Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]
Ghosts [or Gengangere] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about Robert Walser <strong>(VAHL-sur)</strong>, for 10 points each.
Walser lived most of his life in a place of this type, where he wrote his “microscripts” in incredibly small handwriting. Robert Lowell's poem “Waking in the Blue” described his time living in a place of this type.
“Walser is said to be the “missing link” connecting prior German-language authors to this resident of Prague who wrote “The Hunger Artist” and “The Metamorphosis”.
Walser wrote a story about this author's self-inflicted death, which came as the result of a suicide pact, in a story about this man “in Thun”. This German author's novellas include The Earthquake in Chile and Michael Kohlhaas.
mental institution or mental hospital [accept madhouse or psychiatric hospital or psych ward or other equivalents]
Franz Kafka
Heinrich von Kleist [or Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von Kleist] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about Edmund Gosse <strong>(GOSS)</strong>, for 10 points each.
Gosse is perhaps best-remembered for a 1907 memoir titled for his relationship with a man named Philip Henry, who had this relationship to Gosse. Kingsley Amis has this relationship to Martin Amis.
Gosse was the literary editor for the definitive 1911 publication of this reference work, which is traditionally dedicated to both the President of the United States and the monarch of Great Britain.
Gosse was the editor of the “complete works” of this poet, one of his close friends. This man's poems include Atalanta in Calydon.
father [accept dad or other equivalents; accept father-son relationship or Father and Son]
Encyclopædia Britannica
Algernon Charles Swinburne &lt;Hart&gt;
In 2013, eBay user “thehungrycaterpillar13” sold two copies of a volume by this man that contained his unpublished stories “Paula”, “Birthday Boy”, and “The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls”, which were subsequently leaked online. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose character Holden Caulfield first appeared in “The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls”, which was later adapted into part of his novel The Catcher in the Rye.
Salinger's most recognizable short works, including “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” and “For Esmé – with Love and Squalor”, appear in this 1953 collection, which is titled for the number of entries it contains.
The Salinger story, the concluding entry in the Nine Stories, is titled for a gifted ten-year-old boy who discourses on Zen Buddhist philosophy. It ends ambiguously with the title character's possible death due to his sister Booper pushing him into an empty swimming pool.
J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger]
Nine Stories
“Teddy” &lt;Hart&gt;
Canadian author Timothy Findley wrote about this vessel in his novel <em>Not Wanted on the Voyage</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this vessel that God commands to measure 300 by 50 by 30 cubits so it can carry two animals of every type.
This Canadian author wrote of the shipwreck of the boat Tsimtsum, which is transporting zoo animals to North America, leading to the title character being stranded on a lifeboat with a tiger named Richard Parker, in his novel Life of Pi.
This British-Canadian author's experiences on the Pyrrhus, a boat transporting animals to the Dublin Zoo, informed his first novel, Ultramarine. In his second novel, an alcoholic Brit known as the Consul is killed in Mexico.
Noah's Ark [or Tevat Noah]
Yann Martel
Malcolm Lowry [or Clarence Malcolm Lowry] &lt;Hart&gt;
. This character is first introduced throwing rocks at a kitten. For 10 points each:
Name, or provide the nickname of, this son of Ebenezer Dorset, who appears in a short story. Bill and Sam pay Mr. Dorset $250 to recover this character, who gets his nickname because of his hair color.
“The Ransom of Red Chief” is a short story by this American author, noted for his twist endings to stories like “The Gift of the Magi”.
This O. Henry character, a prolific murderer who first appeared in the short story “The Caballero's Way”, tricks Lieutenant Sandridge into shooting his own girlfriend.
Red Chief [or Johnny Dorset; prompt on “Dorset”]
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
The Cisco Kid &lt;Cheyne&gt;
The Heptanese School was a group of 18th- and 19th-century poets in this language, one of whom, Dionysios Solomos, wrote <em>Hymn to Liberty</em>, which is now a national anthem. For 10 points each:
Name this language used by Nobel laureate George Seferis, who advocated the use of its vernacular “demotic” form over its more formalized “katharevousa” form.
“This Greek-language poet wrote of people who “were some kind of solution” in his poem Waiting for the Barbarians. He wrote of a procession of revelers leaving Alexandria in his poem “The God Abandons Antony”.
Cavafy wrote a 1911 poem titled for this place, which contains the lines “when you depart for [this place], / wish for the road to be long / full of adventure, full of knowledge”.
modern Greek language [or Neo-Hellenic language or nea ellinika; accept demotic before “demotic”]
Constantine P. Cavafy [or Konstantin[os] Petrou Kavafis or Konstantin[os] Petrou Kavaphes]
Ithaca &lt;Hart&gt;
This woman's novel <em>The Gravedigger's Daughter</em> was inspired by the revelation that her grandmother had concealed her Jewish heritage. For 10 points each:
Name this prolific American author whose works include the 1969 novel them and the 2000 novel Blonde.
Oates's Blonde is told from the perspective of this actress. Arthur Miller's play After the Fall was written shortly after Miller divorced this Hollywood star, who was previously married to Joe DiMaggio.
Oates was the creative writing teacher of this American novelist, who wrote an early draft of his novel Everything is Illuminated for Oates's class. He wrote about Oskar Schell, a child whose father died on 9/11, in his second novel, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close.
Joyce Carol Oates
Marilyn Monroe [or Norma Jeane Mortenson or Norma Jeane Baker]
Jonathan Safran Foer &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about literary fractals, for 10 points each.
In a 1996 interview, this author admitted that he used the model of the Sierpinski gasket to structure his novel Infinite Jest.
Zachary Mason used fractals to structure his debut novel, titled for the “lost books” of this literary work. Nikos Kazantzakis wrote a “modern sequel” to it.
In January 2016, researchers at Poland's Institute of Nuclear Physics announced that this novel almost exactly conforms to the characteristics of a multifractal system. Mythologist Joseph Campbell and novelist Henry Morton Robinson wrote a “skeleton's key” to this work, from which Campbell took the term “monomyth”.
David Foster Wallace
The Odyssey [accept The Lost Books of the Odyssey or The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel]
Finnegans Wake [by James Joyce] &lt;Hart&gt;
The chronologically-first use of the word “poop” in Shakespeare appears during an exchange of insults in which this character calls Bardolph the “Knight of the Burning Lamp”. For 10 points each:
Name this character who often hangs out in the Boar's Head Tavern in Eastcheap with his followers, including Pistol and Nym. In a comedy with a then-contemporary setting, he attempts to simultaneously woo both Mistress Page and Mistress Quickly.
Falstaff's offstage death is announced near the beginning of this play, whose title monarch delivers a speech beginning “Once more unto the breach, dear friends” at Harfleur and gives the St. Crispin's Day speech before the Battle of Agincourt.
In The Merry Wives of Windsor, Falstaff is tricked into dressing as this character and waiting by an oak tree in Windsor forest, whereupon he is mobbed by children dressed as fairies. This antlered ghost legendarily leads one of Britain's many “wild hunts”.
Sir John Falstaff [prompt on “John”]
Henry V [accept The Chronicle History of Henry the Fifth or The Life of Henry the Fifth]
Herne the Hunter &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about a literary and political meeting that occurred on Martha's Vineyard in 1995, for 10 points each.
The meeting, which concerned the ongoing Cuban embargo, brought together Bill Clinton and his favorite author, this Colombian who wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.
Clinton's unprompted recitation, while pacing around the table, of Benjy's entire monologue from Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury inspired the end of this other attendee's novel The Eagle's Throne. This author also wrote The Old Gringo and Aura.
The meeting took place at the home of this American author, whose 1990 memoir Darkness Visible recounted his battle with depression. His first novel was the 1956 work Lie Down in Darkness.
Gabriel García Márquez [or Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez; prompt on partial last name]
Carlos Fuentes [or Carlos Fuentes Macías]
William Styron [or William Clark Styron Jr.] &lt;Hart&gt;
Kenyon and Hilda flee back to America at the end of this novel, in which one of the protagonists, an artist named Miriam, is hounded by a man who is eventually thrown off of the Tarpeian rock by her suitor. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about a group of artists living in Rome, the final member of which, Donatello, may or may not be descended from the subject of a Praxiteles sculpture.
In this novel by the same author, the daguerreotypist Holgrave falls in love with the visiting Phoebe Pyncheon, whose relatives Hepzibah and Clifford are suffering under the curse laid on their ancestor by Matthew Maule.
The Marble Faun and The House of the Seven Gables were written by this early American novelist most famous for The Scarlet Letter.
The Marble Faun
The House of the Seven Gables
Nathaniel Hawthorne &lt;Carson&gt;
The narrator of the fictional memoirs of Bras Cubas begins his story with this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event that happened to Bras Cubas “at two o'clock on a Friday afternoon in the month of August, 1869”, after “sixty-four intense and prosperous years”.
The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas is a novel by this author, who also wrote Dom Casmurro, a novel in which an unreliable narrator believes that his wife and his best friend are having an affair.
Machado de Assis also wrote the novel Quincas Borba, in which the philosopher Quincas Borba leaves all of his wealth to his friend on the condition that the friend take care of one of these animals, also named Quincas Borba. Mark Haddon wrote a novel about a “curious incident of” one of these animals “in the night-time”.
his death [more specifically death from pneumonia; accept equivalent answers]
Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
dog [accept canine or other equivalents] &lt;Gehring&gt;
This man wrote that the <em>Mona Lisa</em> “is older than the rocks among which she sits” in part of a critical essay that Yeats turned into a poem and selected as the first entry in <em>The Oxford Book of Modern Verse</em>. For 10 points each:
“Name this author of Marius the Epicurean whose book The Renaissance also asserts that “All art constantly aspires towards the condition of music”.
Both Marius the Epicurean and The Renaissance are misquoted by Lord Henry Wotton in this Oscar Wilde novel whose title object ages in lieu of the protagonist.
Pater also wrote about this poet, who wrote the sonnet sequence The House of Life. He wrote of a woman who “lean'd out from the gold bar of heaven” in “The Blessed Damozel”.
Walter Horatio Pater
The Picture of Dorian Gray
Dante Gabriel Rossetti &lt;Kothari&gt;
This author collected eight “rhythms” and five drawings into <em>The Book of Repulsive Women</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American author, who lived for most of the 1920s in Paris and wrote the modernist lesbian novel Nightwood.
A laudatory introduction to Nightwood was written by this American poet of “The Hollow Men” and The Waste Land.
This poet of “The Steeple-Jack”, who wrote “I, too, dislike it” in her poem “Poetry”, was a lifelong friend of Barnes.
Djuna Barnes
T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
Marianne Moore [or Marianne Craig Moore] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about an 1898 production at the Moscow Art Theatre, for 10 points each.
The production, co-directed by Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko, was of this Anton Chekhov play, which had a lukewarm premiere in St. Petersburg two years earlier. The playwright Konstantin Treplev shoots the title bird in this play.
The other co-director of the Moscow Art Theatre production of The Seagull was this Russian acting teacher, whose “system” was adapted by Lee Strasberg into the system of “method acting”.
Stanislavsky himself played this character in The Seagull. This middlebrow writer becomes the lover of Nina and muses on the dead seagull as a symbol for a woman who is destroyed by a man “out of sheer boredom” in act II of the play.
The Seagull [or Chayka]
Konstantin Stanislavsky [or Konstantin Sergeyevich Stanislavsky or Konstantin Sergeyevich Alexeyev]
Boris Alexeyevich Trigorin [accept either underlined name] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about John Milton and blindness, for 10 points each.
Milton's blindness forced him to hire several amanuenses, or literary helpers, including this English poet of “To His Coy Mistress”.
Milton's sonnet “On His Blindness” is alternately titled for its first line, which reads “when I consider how” followed by these four words.
In the play Samson Agonistes, Milton described the blinded Samson with this three-word phrase, which Aldous Huxley used to title a 1936 novel about Anthony Beavis.
Andrew Marvell
my light is spent
eyeless in Gaza &lt;Hart&gt;
This author decried the “gelatin democracy” of Vienna during the “gay apocalypse” of the late 1890s in a book titled <em>Hugo von Hofmannsthal and His Time</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian writer and friend of Robert Musil whose trilogy The Sleepwalkers is a modernist masterpiece of German-language literature. He also wrote The Death of Virgil.
Broch was also acquainted with this German-language writer, whose novels include Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain.
Broch's The Death of Virgil makes extensive use of this modernist literary technique. May Sinclair was the first to use this term, which was coined by William James, in the literary context.
Hermann Broch
Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]
stream of consciousness [accept interior monologue] &lt;Hart&gt;
The structure of Zadie Smith's novel <em>On Beauty</em> is loosely based on that of this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the well-meaning Schlegel sisters interfere with the life of the lower-class Leonard Bast, with disastrous consequences.
Howards End is a novel by this British author, whose other works include A Passage to India and A Room with a View.
The epigraph of Howards End is this two-word instruction. In a section of the novel in which Margaret Schlegel attempts to teach this instruction to her fiance, Henry Wilcox, this phrase describes the joining of the “prose and the passion”.
Howards End
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster]
only connect &lt;Hart&gt;
The role of this character was originated on Broadway by Jessica Tandy. For 10 points each:
Name this fallen southern belle who declares “I have always depended on the kindness of strangers” at the end of a play in which she moves in with Stella and Stanley Kowalski, A Streetcar Named Desire.
This playwright of The Glass Menagerie also wrote A Streetcar Named Desire.
This director introduced the world to Marlon Brando in his 1947 staging of A Streetcar Named Desire. His On the Waterfront defends his decision to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee.
Blanche DuBois [or Blanche DuBois]
Tennessee Williams
Elia Kazan
The blind Seven Seas represents the poet Homer in this work. For 10 points each:
This long poem by Derek Walcott tells of a struggle between the fishermen Achille [“uh-SHEEL”] and Hector. In it, Hector dies in a car crash while trying to avoid a piglet in the road.
Omeros is based on this ancient Greek epic that opens in medias res shortly after Chryses is taken as a prize by Agamemnon. This epic describes the events of the Trojan War.
This other Caribbean author wrote the novel A Small Place about her home country, Antigua. She also described the journey of an au pair [“oh pair”] to the United States in her novel Lucy.
Omeros
The Iliad [or Iliada; or Ilias]
Jamaica Kincaid
This poet wrote about watching a “dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon” in his poem “The Windhover.” For 10 points each:
Name this Victorian Era poet whose Jesuit background is evident in many poems, such as “God’s Grandeur” and “Pied Beauty,” which gives God glory for “dappled things.”
Gerard Manley Hopkins wrote a poem about this event happening to the Deutschland, which was carrying five Franciscan Nuns who were forced to leave Germany.
Hopkins developed this metrical system in which feet can comprise a variable number of syllables from one to four, stress being on the first. In this system spondees predominate rather than iambs.
Gerard Manley Hopkins
shipwreck [or wreck; accept “The Wreck of the Deutschland”; accept anything indicating sinking boats]
Sprung rhythm
This play opens as the Director is preparing to begin a rehearsal of The Rules of the Game, which is another play in its author’s metatheatrical trilogy. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the Father, the Mother, and their children demand that their own story be completed.
This Italian playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author. He also wrote about an actor who falls off a horse during a historical re-enactment and wakes up convinced that he is the title emperor in Henry IV.
This other Italian Nobel Prize winner wrote about The Maniac, who impersonates a judge investigating the title character's fall from a police station window, in Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]
Luigi Pirandello
Dario Fo
This poet urged a friend to not tell a lie to children who are “ardent for some desperate glory”. For 10 points each:
Name this World War I poet who borrowed from Horace in the poem “Dulce et Decorum est”.
Owen wrote that “The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells” and “bugles calling for them from sad shires” are, along with  “the monstrous anger of the guns,” the only “passing-bells for these who die as cattle” in this poem.
This other World War I poet wrote “If I should die, think only this of me: / That there's some corner of a foreign field / That is for ever England” in his poem “The Soldier.”
Wilfred Owen [or Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]
“Anthem for Doomed Youth”
Rupert Brooke [or Rupert Chawner Brooke]
Thomas Mann wrote a response to this novel subtitled “The Beloved Returns”. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose title character is distraught at the betrothal of his beloved Lotte to Albert, from whom he borrows a pair of pistols.
The Sorrows of Young Werther is a novel by this German author who also wrote the two-part verse-drama Faust.
After he is introduced to Shakespeare by Jarno, this Goethe character acts in a version of Hamlet. This character travels to the Pedagogical Province with his son Felix in the second of two novels he appears in.
The Sorrows of Young Werther [or Die Leiden des jungen Werthers]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Wilhelm Meister [accept either name]
Frank Money tries to find his way back to Lotus, Georgia, in a novel by this author.  For 10 points each:
Name this author of Home and The Bluest Eye. She received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1993, the last American author to do so.
The title character of this novel by Toni Morrison appears one day on the doorstep of 124 Bluestone Road. She is thought to be a reincarnation of the child that Sethe [“seth-uh”] killed to save from slavery.
This character from Beloved keeps his memories “in that tobacco tin buried in his chest where a red heart used to be”. He is an escaped slave who used to work for schoolteacher with Halle and Sixo.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
Beloved
Paul D [prompt on “Paul”]
Talal Asad’s essay “Ethnography, Literature, and Politics” discusses different readings of a book by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this British Indian novelist. Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for this author’s death following the publication of his novel The Satanic Verses.
At the beginning of The Satanic Verses, this Bollywood actor is flying in a hijacked plane with his fellow actor Saladin Chamcha. Much of the novel is taken up by this character’s dream sequences.
This is the name given to Muhammad in Gibreel’s dream sequences. It was often used in medieval English literature to ridicule Muslims, such as in Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.
Salman Rushdie
Gibreel Farishta [accept either underlined portion]
Mahound [prompt on “the Messenger”]
The speaker of a poem by this author mourns a woman who lived in a “kingdom by the sea.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “Annabel Lee.” He used the word “tintinnabulation” to describe the “jingling and tinkling” of the title objects in his poem “The Bells.”
In this Edgar Allan Poe poem, the title bird perches upon a bust of Pallas and taunts the speaker by repeatedly uttering “nevermore.”
At the end of “Annabel Lee,” the narrator claims that he spends “all the night-tide” lying down either inside or next to this location.
Edgar Allan Poe
“The Raven”
Annabel Lee’s tomb [or “in her tomb by the sounding sea”; or “in her sepulchre by the sea”; accept near-equivalents to tomb such as mausoleum or coffin]
When this novel’s protagonist is recovering from smallpox, Lady Dedlock reveals that she is the protagonist’s mother. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose heroine is Esther Summerson. The plot of this novel revolves around a will written by “Nemo,” who turns out to be Esther’s estranged father Captain Hawdon.
This other novel documents Pip’s attempts to rise to high society so that he can marry Estella, who is the illegitimate daughter of Abel Magwitch.
This author wrote Bleak House and Great Expectations. He also wrote about an orphan who is tricked into picking pockets with the Artful Dodger in Oliver Twist.
Bleak House
Great Expectations
Charles Dickens
In the only surviving play by this man, Sostratos attempts to wed the daughter of Knemon. For 10 points each:
Name this proponent of New Comedy who wrote Dyskolos, or The Grouch. He was the rival of Philemon.
Although Menander wrote in the comedic form, he greatly admired Euripides, who wrote in this form. The Oresteia trilogy by Aeschylus is also in this form.
Euripides’ Cyclops is the only entirely surviving example of this form of play. These lewd plays, which get their name from some attendants of Dionysus, were often performed following tragic trilogies.
Menander
tragedy [or tragodia]
satyr plays
The protagonist of this play was a promising baseball player but couldn’t play in the big leagues due to his race. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which a garbage collector, Troy Maxson, struggles with raising his son Cory.
This African-American playwright included Fences, Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom and The Piano Lesson in his Pittsburgh Cycle.
In Fences, Troy’s mentally disabled brother Gabriel always carries around one of these instruments. Gabriel tries to play it during Troy’s funeral but no sound comes out.
Fences
August Wilson
a trumpet
A man is framed by William Dane and banished from Lantern Yard at the beginning of this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose title character adopts the illegitimate child of Molly and Godfrey.
The author of Silas Marner wrote about Dorothea Brooke, who marries Will Ladislaw after the death of her boring first husband Edward Casaubon, in this novel that is a “Study of Provincial Life.”
This author wrote Silas Marner and Middlemarch, as well as A Mill on the Floss.
Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe
Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
The play “My Fatherland or My Head Scarf” is performed in a scene from this novel. For 10 points each:
In this novel, the poet Ka travels to the town of Kars while posing as a journalist investigating the suicides of schoolgirls forced to remove their headscarves at school.
Orhan Pamuk, the author of Snow, is from this country. Artists from the Ottoman Empire, which once ruled this modern-day country, appear in Pamuk’s novel My Name is Red.
This Arab author wrote about Al Mustapha, who is about to sail back home after 12 years in the city of Orphalese, in his prose work The Prophet.
Snow
Turkey [or Turkiye]
Khalil Gibran
Answer the following about literature related to California, for 10 points each.
The Trask and Hamilton families settle in California’s Salinas Valley in this author’s East of Eden. Tom Joad and his family travel west from Oklahoma to California during the Dust Bowl in his The Grapes of Wrath.
This author depicted the conflict between California wheat farmers and the railroad companies in The Octopus. The titular San Francisco dentist ends up handcuffed to Marcus’ corpse in his McTeague.
This Lawrence Ferlinghetti-operated bookstore in San Francisco was at the center of the Beat Movement. It was sued for publishing Allen Ginsberg’s supposedly indecent “Howl.”
John Steinbeck [or John Ernst Steinbeck, Jr.]
Frank Norris [or Benjamin Franklin Norris, Jr.]
City Lights Bookstore
The protagonist of a novella by this author kills his wife after finding out about her affair with a violinist with whom she plays the title piece. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian author of The Kreutzer Sonata. He wrote about the title character’s decline after a fall from a ladder in The Death of Ivan Ilyich.
Tolstoy wrote about Natasha Rostova’s marriage to Pierre Bezukhov, who is obsessed with the thought of assassinating Napoleon, in this lengthy book.
This novel was Tolstoy’s last. In this novel, Dmitri Ivanovich Nekhlyudov, who as a young man had impregnated Maslova, follows Maslova into a harrowing prison and on a long march to Siberia.
Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
War and Peace [or Voyna i Mir]
Resurrection [or Voskreseniye]
This character kills himself rather than face trial in colonial court for killing a white man. For 10 points each:
Name this character who had earlier killed his adoptive son Ikemufuna [“ik-ay-may-foona”] when the Oracle of Umuofia decides that the boy has to die.
Okonkwo and his adoptive children, including Ezinma and Nwoye [“un-WOH-yay”], appear in this novel by Chinua Achebe. Its title is taken from a line in the Yeats poem “The Second Coming”.
In this sequel to Things Fall Apart, Obi Okonkwo leaves his village to enter the Nigerian civil service.
Okonkwo
Things Fall Apart
No Longer at Ease
This character is moved by the stories of a character called “the Shaper,” who is a bard at the Hart. For 10 points each:
Name this character who starts attacking his human neighbors in a novel by John Gardner. This character is a descendant of Cain.
Grendel’s arm is torn off by this hero from an Old-English epic. This character also defeats Grendel’s mother and a dragon.
This is Hrothgar’s mead hall that is terrorized by Grendel. This place is called “Hart” in John Gardner’s novel.
Grendel
Beowulf
Heorot
The death of this novel’s title character is ordered by cruel plantation owner Simon Legree. For 10 points each:
Name this 1852 abolitionist novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe that spurred a national debate about slavery in the antebellum United States.
Uncle Tom befriends this sweet little girl, the daughter of his owner Augustine St. Clare. She tragically dies after experiencing a vision of the afterlife.
This writer tore Uncle Tom’s Cabin to shreds in his essay “Everybody’s Protest Novel.” His essay collections include The Fire Next Time and Notes of a Native Son.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin
Little Eva [or Evangeline St. Clare]
James Baldwin
The speaker of this poem compares the title creature to poets, because they both look down upon the bowman but are ungraceful on the ground. For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose title creature is described as an indolent creature that is often shot down for pleasure by crews.
“The Albatross” appears in this collection which is dedicated to Theophile Gauthier and whose first section is “Spleen and Ideal.”
This French Symbolist wrote Les Fleur du Mal.
“L’albatros” [or “The Albatross”]
Les Fleur du Mal [or The Flowers of Evil]
Charles Baudelaire
Answer the following about the One Thousand and One Nights, for 10 points each.
This character in the Arabian Nights finds a genie in a lamp, and uses the genie’s power to marry Princess Badroulbadour.
This character is a woodcutter who discovers the secret storage cave of a group of forty thieves, enters the cave himself, and takes a bag of gold.
In the second voyage of Sinbad the Sailor, he comes upon a valley full of eggs of this mythical bird. These birds eat large snakes in a valley covered with diamonds.
Aladdin
Ali Baba
rocs [or rukhs]
Answer the following about creepy American short stories, for 10 points each.
This author wrote a short story about an “Inhabitant of Carcosa” who wanders through an ominous wilderness. He is better known for writing The Devil’s Dictionary and a short story in which Peyton Farquhar hallucinates while he is being killed by hanging, “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.”
Bierce’s “Inhabitant of Carcosa” inspired some of this author’s many stories about Cthulu. A scientific expedition to Antarctica is attacked by the “Elder Things” in his At the Mountains of Madness.
In this oft-anthologized Joyce Carol Oates story, a creepy guy named Arnold Friend charms and then threatens Connie into his car, presumably so he can abduct her.
Ambrose Bierce [or Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce]
H.P Lovecraft [or Howard Phillips Lovecraft]
“Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?”
Conrad, the son of this novel’s protagonist, dies right before his wedding when a gigantic helmet crushes him. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Horace Walpole about Manfred’s attempts to produce a strong male heir for his family.
The Castle of Otranto kicked off this literary horror genre whose name refers to the architecture of the castles they were often set in.
This author described Harker and van Helsing’s efforts to kill the title creature in the 1897 novel Dracula.
The Castle of Otranto
Gothic fiction [or Gothic horror]
Bram Stoker [or Abraham Stoker]
Answer the following questions about islands in literature, for 10 points each:
Which Anatole France novel is about an island full of the title birds, which are accidentally baptized and given human souls? It satirizes the history of France from the Dark Ages and into the future.
A group of young boys are stranded on an island in what William Golding novel? In it, Piggy’s glasses are used to make fire before they are crushed by a rock.
The Ape-man is one of many animal-human hybrids in which H.G. Wells novel centering on Edward Prendick’s experience at the title location?
Penguin Island
Lord of the Flies
The Island of Doctor Moreau
In this novel, Bruno makes elaborate knot sculptures based on the protagonist’s stories. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel, whose protagonist Oskar Matzerath can shatter glass with his voice and refuses to age past three years old.
This recently deceased German novelist wrote The Tin Drum.
The Tin Drum is the first novel in this sequence of Grass novels named after a Polish city.
The Tin Drum
Günter (Wilhelm) Grass
The Danzig Trilogy
One character in this novel uses empty straw ships to get arrows for a battle. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Liu Bei is victorious at the Battle of Red Cliffs. It was written by Luo Guanzhong and depicts the time after the end of the Han dynasty.
Romance of the Three Kingdoms is one of the Four Great Classical Novels of this country.
Another Ming Dynasty novel is titled for this fruit “in the Golden Vase”. That novel documents the life and harem of Ximen Qing, and is studied for its pioneering narrative style and explicit sexual content.
Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or Sanguo yanyi; or San-kuo yen-i]
China [or Zhongguo]
plum [or The Plum in the Golden Vase; or mei; or Jin Ping Mei]
The preface to this collection includes a takedown of Thomas Gray’s sonnet “On the Death of Richard West” as part of an argument that, with the exception of meter, poetry need not differ from prose. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1798 collection, which includes poems such as “Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey.”
Along with William Wordsworth, this poet wrote Lyrical Ballads. He also wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
In this “Conversation Poem”, Coleridge regrets being “reared / In the great city” and wishes for his son to grow up in the country. This poem’s title phenomenon “performs its secret ministry / Unhelped.”
Lyrical Ballads, with a Few Other Poems
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
“Frost at Midnight”
In an essay set during this event, the narrator scares a man named Jimbo by telling him that a Black Panther-instigated race riot will break out during it. For 10 points each:
Name this event attended by a drug-addled writer and illustrator team in a 1970 gonzo journalism piece. The title of an essay calls this event “Decadent and Depraved.”
“The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved,” which was a foundational work of New Journalism, was written by this author of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
This other New Journalist described Ken Kesey’s LSD-fueled antics in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. Bond trader Sherman McCoy accidently hits Henry Lamb with his car in his The Bonfire of the Vanities.
the 1970 Kentucky Derby [or “The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved”]
Hunter S. Thompson [or Hunter Stockton Thompson]
Tom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly Wolfe, Jr.]
Answer the following about American poets from New England, for 10 points each.
This poet lived on a farm in New Hampshire, where he wrote poems like “Birches” and “Mending Wall.” The refrain “and miles to go before I sleep” ends his poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
This New England resident described a night spent “watch[ing] for love-cars” in “Skunk Hour.” The old Boston aquarium is juxtaposed with a monument to the 54th Massachusetts Regiment in his poem “For the Union Dead.”
Lowell dedicated “Skunk Hour” to this New England-based female poet. The line “the art of losing isn’t hard to master” begins her poem “One Art.”
Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost]
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
Elizabeth Bishop
In one novel by this author, a hired singer reveals her prior affair with the father of the bride during a wedding.  For 10 points each:
Name this author who created the character al-Sayyid al-Ahmed in his novel Palace Walk.  He also wrote Sugar Street and Children of Gebelawi.
Mahfouz is from this country, which is the setting of his Cairo Trilogy.
In the Mahfouz story “Under the Shelter”, a policeman shoots people in a crowd at one of these places after they complain about illegal activities outside. Cherie agrees to marry Bo in a William Inge play titled after one of these places.
Naguib Mahfouz
Egypt
bus stops [or a bus shelter]
The narrator of this poem encounters Murder, Fraud, and Hypocrisy, which represent Castlereagh, Lord Eldon, and Sidmouth. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that promoted a message of nonviolence in response to the Peterloo massacre.
The speaker of this sonnet by the same poet meets a man who has seen a pedestal on which the title “king of kings” proclaims “Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”
This author of “The Masque of Anarchy” and “Ozymandias” proclaimed “Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!” at the beginning of his poem “To a Skylark.”
“The Masque of Anarchy”
“Ozymandias”
Percey Bysshe Shelley
In a play by this author, the young boy Michael is turned over to Grusha, who refuses to pull him out of a drawn border. For 10 points each:
Name this German playwright of The Caucasian Chalk Circle who collaborated with Kurt Weill on the Threepenny Opera.
In another Brecht play, this title character foretells that of her three children, Eilif will die due to his bravery and Kattrin due to her kindness.
This younger son of Mother Courage is the first to die. This overly-honest character is killed for hiding a cash-box from the Catholics.
Bertolt Brecht
Mother Courage [or Anna Fierling (accept either); accept Mutter Courage; accept Mother Courage and her Children or Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder]
Swiss Cheese [or Feyos]
The first Nobel Prize winning author from this country wrote about a wealthy American who dies in Capri and whose body is shipped back across the Atlantic. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of the author of the short story “The Gentleman from San Francisco.” Another author from this country wrote about an operation that turns a dog named Sharik into a human in Heart of a Dog.
This Russian Social Realist wrote about Nilovna, who helps her son Pavel in his revolutionary ambitions, in The Mother. Luka lies to comfort the other miserable inhabitants of the title location in his The Lower Depths.
Another Russian author is Anna Akhmatova [“ack-MAH-tuh-vah”], whose husband Nikolai Punin died while exiled to these labor camps. Solzhenitsyn [“sol-jen-EETS-in”] wrote a nonfiction work about conditions in the “archipelago” of these institutions.
Russia [prompt on “Soviet Union”]
Maxim Gorky [or Alexei Maximovich Peshkov]
gulags [accept The Gulag Archipelago or Arkhipelag GULAG]
A poem titled for this neighborhood asks “what happens to a dream deferred?” For 10 points each:
Name this predominantly African-American neighborhood in New York City that experienced a namesake cultural “Renaissance” in the 1920s.
Zora Neale Hurston, an author associated with the Harlem Renaissance, wrote this novel in which Janie Crawford shoots her rabies-infected husband Tea Cake.
This Harlem Renaissance member detailed the life of an unnamed mixed-race person in The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. He also wrote “Lift Every Voice and Sing” and a collection of “Seven Negro Sermons,” God’s Trombones.
Harlem [accept Harlem Renaissance]
Their Eyes Were Watching God
James Weldon Johnson
This poem describes how “dogs go on with their doggy life” and a horse scratches its behind. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that describes a pair of “white legs disappearing into the green” being ignored by the “expensive delicate ship” that “Had somewhere to get to and sailed calmly on.”
“Musée des Beaux Arts” was written by this English poet who satirically mourned a dictator in “Epitaph for a Tyrant” and asked the addressee to “stop all the clocks” in “Funeral Blues.”
This Auden poem gained a revival in popularity following the 9/11 attacks. It says that “those to whom evil is done do evil in return,” a possible reference to the Treaty of Versailles, and is named for the first day of World War 2.
“Musée des Beaux Arts” [“moo-ZAY de bows-ARE”]
Wystan Hugh Auden
“September 1, 1939”
The protagonist of a short story by this author directs workmen where to place a marquee before the title event. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Laura’s encounter with the corpse of her working-class neighbor Mr. Scott in “The Garden Party”.
Katherine Mansfield is an author from this country. Another author from this country, Keri Hulme, wrote The Bone People, which portrays the clash between Maori and European cultures.
The Bone People won this award for English-language novels published in the UK. Another New Zealander, Eleanor Catton, won this prize in 2013 for The Luminaries.
Katherine Mansfield
New Zealand
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
The realist Lieutenant Pirogov tries to seduce a married woman while his romantic friend Piskaryov obsesses over a prostitute in this short story. For 10 points each:
Name this story that opens and ends with commentary about the title street.
Akaky Aka·kie·vich seeks help from the “Person of Consequence” after being robbed of his most prized possession in this story by the same author.
This Russian author of “Nevsky Prospect” and “The Overcoat” wrote about Major Kovalyov waking up to find a body part missing in “The Nose.”
“Nevsky Prospect” [or “Nevskii Prospekt”]
“The Overcoat” [or "The Cloak"; or "Shinel”]
Nikolai Gogol
This character is initially engaged to a green-haired woman, but after her death marries her sister instead. For 10 points each:
Name this patron of Tres Marias. He attempts to kill Pedro Tercero for seeing his daughter Blanca.
Esteban Trueba is the patriarch of a family that includes his clairvoyant wife Clara and his illegitimate granddaughter Alba in this novel.
This Chilean author of The Stories of Eva Luna wrote The House of the Spirits.
Esteban Trueba [prompt on “Trueba”]
The House of the Spirits [or La Casa de Los Espíritus]
Isabel Allende
This poem’s speaker advises the title characters that “that age is best which is the first, / when youth and blood are warmer.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem in the collection Hesperides that instructs the title characters to “gather ye rosebuds while ye may” and to “be not coy.”
The author of Hesperides, Robert Herrick, was a member of this 17th century group of poets named for its support of the Royalists in the English Civil War.
“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time” is in this poetic genre. Horace coined this phrase in a poem that advises one to “cut short long-term hopes”,“trusting the future as little as possible”, and do this action.
“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time”
Cavalier poets
carpe diem [or seize the day]
Because she is reluctant to have a threesome with an Italian prostitute, this character breaks up with the protagonist on a European vacation. For 10 points each:
Name this woman whose sexual proclivities are recounted by Alexander to Dr. Spielvogel in a 1969 novel. She gains her nickname from a story she tells about eating a banana while watching a couple’s tryst.
The Monkey is one of the title character’s many conquests in Portnoy’s Complaint, a novel by this Jewish-American author who also wrote American Pastoral.
Roth’s novel The Plot Against America is an alternate history of this war. The plot of James Jones’ From Here to Eternity takes place during this war.
the Monkey [or Mary Jane Reed]
Philip Roth [or Philip Milton Roth]
World War II [or the Second World War]
The title character of this novel throws her bridal bouquet into a fire while she is packing for her move to Yonville. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel whose title character marries Charles, a doctor who later botches a surgery to repair the club foot of Hippolyte.
Madame Bovary is a novel by this author who wrote about the Mercenary War in Carthage in the historical novel Salammbô.
The title for Julian Barnes’ novel Flaubert’s Parrot was inspired by this story about Madame Aubain’s maid Félicité who has a vision of her dead parrot Loulou as she dies.
Madame Bovary
Gustave Flaubert
“A Simple Heart” [or “Un coeur simple”]
Shukumar and Shoba try to fix their failing marriage during a series of power outages in this collection’s story “A Temporary Matter.” For 10 points each:
Name this short story collection whose stories explore the theme of Indian-American identity. The tour guide Mr. Kapasi develops a crush on Mrs. Das in its title story.
This female Indian American author of the novels The Namesake and The Lowland wrote Interpreter of Maladies.
Miranda has an affair with a married Indian man named Dev in this story from Interpreter of Maladies. It is titled for a compliment Dev gives Miranda that is later repeated by a little boy Miranda is babysitting.
Interpreter of Maladies
Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]
“Sexy”
This author wrote that “each man kills the thing he loves,” “the coward does it with a kiss / the brave man with a sword” in a poem he wrote while imprisoned. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “The Ballad of Reading Gaol” [“ballad of redding jail”].
In an Oscar Wilde novel, Basil Hallward creates a picture of this character that ages as this character sins.
Wilde described his relationship with Lord Alfred Douglas in this letter composed while Wilde was imprisoned at Reading Gaol. Its name derives from a passage in Psalm 130.
Oscar Wilde
Dorian Gray [or The Picture of Dorian Gray]
“De Profundis”
The protagonist of this novel writes many letters addressed to God and her long-lost sister Nettie. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Celie comes to escape her abusive husband “Mister” after falling in love with his mistress, a nightclub singer named Shug Avery.
This American author of Meridian won the Pulitzer Prize for The Color Purple.
Alice Walker helped rescue this author’s work from obscurity by publishing an essay titled “Looking for [this author].” Walker also wrote about her search for this author’s unmarked grave.
The Color Purple
Alice Walker
Zora Neale Hurston
The speaker of this poem observes that “The grave's a fine and private place / But none, I think, do there embrace.” For 10 point each:
Name this poem whose speaker tells his love interest that his “vegetable love should grow / Vaster than empires, and more slow” if he did not always hear “Time's winged chariot hurrying near.”
This poet of a series of “Mower poems” wrote “To His Coy Mistress.”
This American poet described lying “face down beneath the sun” in the poem “You, Andrew Marvell”. This author wrote that “A poem should not mean / But be” in “Ars Poetica.”
“To His Coy Mistress”
Andrew Marvell
Archibald MacLeish
The title character of this story dies with “no hopeful verse” written on his tombstone. For 10 points each:
Name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story in which a young Puritan man ventures out into the New England woods, where he finds a coven of devil-worshipping witches that includes his wife, Faith.
In “Young Goodman Brown,” Faith wears pink versions of this item of clothing. Brown realizes that his wife is a member of the coven upon finding pieces of this clothing item on a tree branch.
Puritans abound in this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel about Hester Prynne, a woman who must wear the title letter on her chest to repent for having committed adultery.
“Young Goodman Brown”
pink ribbons
The Scarlet Letter
Name some short stories by Franz Kafka, for 10 points each.
Gregor Samsa finds himself transformed into an enormous insect in this short story, and eventually dies after his father throws an apple at him.
A torture machine in this short story has parts called the “Bed”, “Designer”, and “Harrow”. The caretaker dies while having the machine inscribe “BE JUST” into his back in this story.
The title character of this short story rides two horses which magically appear in his pig sty. While doing so, though, he abandons his servant girl Rosa to the groom of those horses.
“The Metamorphosis” [or “Die Verwandlung”]
“In the Penal Colony” [or “In the Penal Settlement”; or "In der Strafkolonie"]
“A Country Doctor” [or “Ein Landarzt”]
While searching for Ludmilla, one character in this novel meets Professor Uzzi-Tuzzi, a scholar of Cimmerian. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose odd-numbered chapters document You the Reader attempting to find the remainder of this novel.
This Italian author wrote If on a winter’s night a traveler. He also wrote a trilogy of novels titled The Baron in the Trees, The Cloven Viscount, and The Nonexistent Knight.
Another Calvino novel is titled for cities that have this property. A novel by Ralph Ellison is about a man who metaphorically has this property, because of how society views black men.
If on a winter’s night a traveler [or Se una notte d'inverno un viaggiatore]
Italo Calvino
invisible [or Invisible Cities; or Le citta invisibili; or Invisible Man]
The narrator of this poem describes meeting people who have just left “counter or desk” in their workplaces of “grey eighteenth century houses.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that states that “too long a sacrifice / Can make a stone of the heart”. It memorializes “MacDonagh and MacBride / And Connolly and Pearse”, who were involved in the title revolt in Ireland.
“Easter, 1916” is by this Irish poet who included the line “World-Besotted Traveler” in his translation of Jonathan Swift’s epitaph. He used the line “That is no country for old men” to begin his “Sailing to Byzantium”
“Easter, 1916” ends with the statement that things “Are changed, changed utterly” and that a figure described by this two-word phrase “is born”.
“Easter, 1916”
William Butler Yeats
a terrible beauty [or “a terrible beauty is born.”]
This poem consists of twenty five quatrains, the first of which begins “As I was going down impassive Rivers / I no longer felt myself guided by haulers.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem narrated by the title vessel, which recounts its crash into the “furious lashing of the tides” after the death of its crew.
This French symbolist wrote “The Drunken Boat” at the age of 16. He was shot by his lover Paul Verlaine.
This author discussed the poetry of Rimbaud and his contemporaries in his essay “The Bow and the Lyre.” This author of the poem “Sunstone” analyzed Mexican culture in “Labyrinth of Solitude.”
“The Drunken Boat” [or “Le bateau ivre”]
Arthur Rimbaud
Octavio Paz
This character moves to Lycurgus, New York to work for his Uncle Samuel’s collar factory. For 10 points each:
Name this protagonist of An American Tragedy. He accidentally kills his pregnant girlfriend Roberta Alden by leaving her in a capsizing rowboat.
This American wrote An American Tragedy. The title girl travels from her rural Wisconsin home to Chicago in his novel Sister Carrie.
This American novelist singled Dreiser out for praise in his 1930 Nobel Prize acceptance speech. He wrote Babbit and Main Street.
Clyde Griffiths [or Clyde Griffiths]
Theodore Dreiser [or Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser]
Sinclair Lewis [or Henry Sinclair Lewis]
This man’s lost wits are eventually found on the moon. For 10 points each:
Name this paladin who titles poems by Matteo Boiardo and Ludovico Ariosto. In Ariosto’s poem, this knight goes mad when Angelica elopes with the Saracen knight Medoro.
Orlando is one of the paladins who serve this Holy Roman Emperor. Orlando kills this Frankish king’s rival, the Saracen king Agramante, who had besieged this man’s capital of Paris.
Orlando Furioso is written in this form with eight-line stanzas that was also used by Lord Byron in Don Juan and William Butler Yeats in “Sailing to Byzantium.”
Orlando [or Orlando Furioso; or Roland]
Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Carlo Magno; or Karl der Grosse; or Carolus Magnus]
ottava rima
This novel is set on San Lorenzo, a fictional Caribbean island where Papa Monzano kills dissenters with a large hook. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which ice-nine is accidentally released into the ocean, freezing everything and killing most of humanity. A bizarre fictional religion called bokononism was created in this novel.
This author of Cat’s Cradle also wrote about Billy Pilgrim, a World War II prisoner of war who becomes unstuck from time, in Slaughterhouse-Five.
In Cat’s Cradle, adherents of bokononism practice “boko-maru,” a highly spiritual activity in which two of these body parts are rubbed together.
Cat’s Cradle
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
bare feet [or the soles of feet; or foot]
One work by this author opens “What mighty contests rise from trivial things”. For 10 points each:
Name this British poet who used heroic couplets in the mock epic The Rape of the Lock. This author mocked various people by making them the kings of Dulness’ followers in several versions of The Dunciad. [“DUNCE-ee-ad”].
The heroic couplet was perfected by this other author, who mocked Thomas Shadwell in a poem that opens “All human things are subject to decay” and is titled Mac Flecknoe. He also wrote Absalom and Achitophel [“uh-KIT-uh-fell”].
This author used heroic couplets in his “The Vanity of Human Wishes”. He compiled biographies of many authors in Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets.
Alexander Pope
John Dryden
Samuel Johnson
In this novel, a club-footed man boasts of being able to seduce women because they feel sorry for him. For 10 points each:
Kashiwagi is a friend of the protagonist Mizoguchi in this novel. A Buddhist monk, Mizoguchi recites the Zen koan “When ye meet the Buddha, kill the Buddha!” before burning down the title structure of this novel.
This Japanese author wrote The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, as well as Confessions of a Mask. This author committed ritual suicide following a failed attempt at a coup to restore the emperor to power.
Mishima’s last completed work was the final book of this tetralogy. Kiyoaki dies holding Shigekuni [“shee-gay-KOO-nee”] Honda’s hand in the first book of this tetralogy, Spring Snow.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji]
Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio]
Sea of Fertility tetralogy [or Hojo no Umi]
Answer the following about Roman poetry, for 10 points each.
This Roman poet first used the term in medias res in his collection Ars Poetica. He is also famous for having written numerous Odes and the early lyric poem “Carmen Saeculare” [“sigh-koo-LAH-ray”].
This author is known for his collection of Satires aimed at whatever irked him, including the third one titled “Quid Romae faciam” [“fah-key-UM”], or “What will I do at Rome?”
A common theme in Roman and Greek poetry is the invocation of one of these mythological figures that governed poetry and the arts. Catullus invokes one of them in the first of his carmina.
Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
Juvenal [or Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis]
the Muses
The speaker calls the title figure “not God but a swastika/ so black no sky could squeak through” before claiming “every woman adores a fascist.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, published along with “Lady Lazarus” in the collection Ariel, that frequently uses Holocaust imagery. It calls the title figure “A man in black with a Meinkampf look.”
“Daddy” was written by this confessional poet. She fictionalized her struggle with depression in a novel about Esther Greenwood, The Bell Jar.
This other confessional poet and friend of Sylvia Plath wrote the collections Live or Die and The Awful Rowing Toward God before committing suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning in 1974.
“Daddy”
Sylvia Plath
Anne Sexton
The chorus of this play appears when the protagonist is crossing the river Styx. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Dionysus goes to the Underworld to bring back Euripides, but ends up bring back Aeschylus instead. The title chorus sings the refrain “Brekekekex koax koax.”
In this play by the same author, Bdelycleon [“deli-clee-on”]  is the son of the law court-loving Philocleon, who at the beginning of the play is locked up in a house covered with a net.
This Athenian playwright wrote The Frogs and Lysistrata.
The Frogs [or Batrachoi]
The Wasps [or Sphekes]
Aristophanes
A short story by this author ends with a dog abandoning his master to die of hypothermia in the Yukon. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “To Build a Fire.” The Yukon is also the setting of his novel White Fang.
In this novel, Jack London’s most famous, an ordinary dog named Buck is kidnapped and taken to the Yukon. There, he befriends John Thornton before deciding to live in the wilderness.
In this other Jack London novel, the weakling Humphrey van Weyden slowly develops a rivalry with the title character, an amoral captain who rescued him from a shipwreck.
Jack London [or John Griffith London]
The Call of the Wild
The Sea-Wolf
In a novel by this author, a character owns a dog whose name changes from Pilot to Faithful to Constant after the Iberian Peninsula breaks off and floats into the Atlantic. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Stone Raft who describes the rapid spread of the title ailment through an unnamed city in which the central characters are quarantined by the military in the novel Blindness.
José Saramago is from this Iberian country. Another author from this country was Fernando Pessoa, who wrote under many pseudonyms like Ricardo Reis.
Luís de Camões wrote this Portuguese national epic that is narrated by Vasco da Gama.
José Saramago [or José de Sousa Saramago]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic]
The Lusiads [or Os Lusíadas]
This story opens with Pelayo throwing crabs back into the sea to protect his sick child from the odor. For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which a “flesh-and-blood angel” is paraded around as a circus attraction before finally flying away.
This author of “A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings” also wrote the story “Leaf Storm”, which takes place in the town of Macondo.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez is perhaps best known for this work, which centers around generations of the Buendía family living in Macondo.
“A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings” [or "Un señor muy viejo con unas alas enormes"]
Gabriel Garcia Marquez
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad]
This character exclaims “Not bloody likely!” while trying to act like a duchess at a gathering with the Eynsford Hills. For 10 points each:
Name this character who has a cockney accent and who is trained to speak like an upper-class lady in Pygmalion.
This Irish playwright wrote Pygmalion, as well as Major Barbara.
In Major Barbara, Barbara is appalled that the Salvation Army accepts a large donation from this character’s munitions factory. This character is Barbara’s estranged father.
Eliza Doolittle [accept either]
George Bernard Shaw
Andrew Undershaft [accept either]
Kikuji meets Mrs. Ota at a tea ceremony in a novel by this author. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Thousand Cranes. He was the first Japanese author to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
In this Kawabata novel, Shimamura and the geisha Komako have an affair while Shimamura is visiting the hot springs away from Tokyo.
This other Kawabata novel chronicles a match between the Honinbo [“HON-in-bo”] Shusai and the challenger Minoru Kitani in the title game.
Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]
Snow Country [or Yukiguni]
The Master of Go [or Meijin]
The title character of this poem lives in an island castle and must continually weave on her loom without looking at the world outside. For 10 points each:
Name this poem about a woman afflicted with a curse after seeing Sir Lancelot, who then writes her name on a boat and dies while floating down the river to Camelot.
“The Lady of Shalott” was written by this 19th-century British Poet, who wrote about characters who rode “Half a league, half a league / Half a league onward” in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
The speaker of this Tennyson poem, which the author requested to be the final entry in his collections, hopes to see his “Pilot face-to-face” after performing the title action.
“The Lady of Shalott”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
“Crossing the Bar”
Answer the following about literary depictions of Chicago, for 10 points each.
It is described as the “City of Big Shoulders” and “Hog Butcher of the World” in this poet’s most famous poem, “Chicago.”
This character states “I am an American, Chicago born” at the beginning of a Saul Bellow novel about his Adventures.
Binx Bolling, the title character of this Walker Percy novel, takes his suicidal cousin Kate on a trip from New Orleans to Chicago to visit a Korean War buddy.
Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]
Augie March [or The Adventures of Augie March; prompt on just “March”]
The Moviegoer
The speaker of this poem tells a woman who “purpled” her fingernail with the “blood of innocence” that to kill the title creature would be “three sins in killing three.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem whose speaker tries to persuade a woman to yield to him after their “two bloods mingled” in an insect that bit both of them.
This English metaphysical poet wrote “The Flea.” He also wrote a series of “Holy Sonnets”.
The speaker of this Donne poem compares himself and his lover to the two arms of a compass, and says to his lover that “Thy firmness makes my circle just / And makes me end where I begun.”
“The Flea”
John Donne
“A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning”
The protagonist of this novel repeats the phrase “es muss sein” and publishes a letter comparing a communist government to Oedipus. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the womanizing surgeon Thomas escapes from Prague to Switzerland with his wife Theresa.
This Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
This other Czech dramatist created the character Hugo Pludek, who becomes the head of the Office of Liquidation by learning how to talk in meaningless cliches, in  The Garden Party.
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Milan Kundera
Vaclav Havel
Larry Darrell learns about Advaita philosophy while visiting this country in The Razor’s Edge. For 10 points each:
Name this modern country which is the setting of James Farrell’s The Siege of Krishnapur. Contemporary authors from this country include Aravind Adiga and Vikram Seth.
The Razor’s Edge was written by this author. He wrote about the relationship between the prostitute Mildred and the club-footed Philip Carey in Of Human Bondage.
Maugham fictionalized Paul Gauguin’s life in this novel, in which Charles Strickland leaves his wife to become a Parisian artist.
Republic of India [or Bharat ganarajya]
W. Somerset Maugham [pronounced “MAWM”] [or William Somerset Maugham]
The Moon and Sixpence
This event ends with a woman sobbing through the words “we’re free” as flute music plays. For 10 points each:
Name this poorly-attended event that occurs at the end of a 1949 play. Only Happy remains optimistic during it, saying “I’m going to beat this racket!”
As the title would suggest, Willy Loman dies in this playwright’s Death of a Salesman. He allegorized the McCarthy-era witch hunts in The Crucible.
This son of Willy Loman and brother of Happy Loman sets much of the plot of Death of a Salesman in motion by returning home from his travels. He was a promising athlete until he caught his father having an affair.
Willy Loman’s funeral [or Willy Loman’s funeral; or the funeral at the end of Death of a Salesman; or the last scene of Death of a Salesman; or “Requiem”]
Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]
Biff Loman [prompt on just “Loman”]
This poem laments that eleven generations have passed since the time of a woman who died of grief at her son’s departure on his quest to become a knight. For 10 points each:
Name this German epic poem about the son of Herzeloyde and Gahmuret, who kills a red-armored knight for King Arthur. Wolfram von Eschenbach based this poem on an uncompleted work by Chretien de Troyes [“KREH-tee-uhn de TWAH”].
Parzival quests for this item, which a princess carries to him on a platter at the castle of Anfortas, the Wounded King. Robert de Boron wrote that Joseph of Arimathea used this object to catch the blood of Christ.
In another medieval German epic poem, the Nibelungenlied, this hero is murdered by Hagen, who had convinced Kriemhild to mark his one vulnerable point, where a leaf had fallen when he bathed in dragon’s blood.
Parzival [or Percival]
the Grail [or the Gral; or the Holy Grail; prompt on “Holy Chalice”]
Siegfried [or Sigurd]
The title building of this short story is composed of hexagonal galleries with bookshelves on four of the sides.  For 10 points each:
Name this short story.  Its narrator tells of how the Purifiers religious sect sought to destroy worthless books.
This Argentinean author of Ficciones and “El Aleph” wrote “The Library of Babel”.
In “The Library of Babel”, people begin to search for the “Vindications” after discovering this property of the library.
“The Library of Babel” [or “La biblioteca de Babel”]
Jorge Luis Borges
the Library is infinite [or similar answers like “it is endless”; or “there are infinite rooms”]
In this novel, members of the clandestine mail delivery service Trystero scrawl the acronym “W.A.S.T.E.” on trash bins. For 10 points each:
Name this 1966 novel in which Trystero is investigated by Oedipa Maas.
The Crying of Lot 49 was written by this American author. The location of Tyrone Slothrop’s sexual encounters correspond with V2 rocket strikes in his notoriously difficult novel Gravity’s Rainbow.
Pynchon is known for being extremely reclusive, not unlike this other American author who wrote Nine Stories and The Catcher in the Rye.
The Crying of Lost 49
Thomas Pynchon [or Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr.]
J.D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger]
This author wrote about the Ministry of Truth employee Winston Smith in a novel that introduced the “Newspeak” language. For 10 points each:
Name this author of 1984.
The narrator of this Orwell essay uses a 44 Winchester to perform the title action in the streets of Moulmein in Burma.
Orwell wrote an essay titled for “Politics and” this entity, in which he presents a tortured translation of a passage of Ecclesiastes as an example of how politics has created “insincerity” in this thing.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
“Shooting an Elephant”
English language [or “Politics and the English Language”]
Name the following characters from Sophocles’s Theban plays, for 10 points each.
This Theban hero was abandoned as a child because an oracle prophesied that he would kill his father Laius. This hero eventually made his way back to Thebes, where he married his mother Jocasta.
During his journey to Colonus, Oedipus was accompanied by this figure, who is his daughter. In the Sophocles play named after her, this character defies Kreon to bury her brother Polyneices.
This son of Kreon and betrothed of Antigone kills himself when it is revealed that Antigone hanged herself.
Oedipus
Antigone
Haimon
The elderly servant Fiers is abandoned in a locked building at the end of this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Lopakhin buys Madame Ranevskaya’s estate and starts chopping the title grove.
This Russian author reworked his play The Wood Demon into his play Uncle Vanya. He also wrote The Cherry Orchard.
Dr. Rabin gets locked into the title institution, whose other patients include Ivan Gromov, in this Chekhov story.
The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnevyi sad]
Anton Chekhov
“Ward No. 6” [or “Ward 6” or “Palata No. 6”]
This collection includes selections such as “Revolt,” “Wine,” and “Death.” FTPE:
What 19th-century poetry collection by Charles Baudelaire has a title connoting blooms grown by dark forces?
The first poem after the dedication of Les Fleurs du Mal addresses this person holding the book as a “hypocrite” and “brother.”
Baudelaire uses this term throughout the collection to refer to anger, spite, and melancholy, contrasting it with “ideal” in one section title.
Les Fleurs du Mal (or The Flowers of Evil)
reader (accept “Au Lecteur” or “The Reader,” obviously!)
spleen
Fictional characters that live in this city include Studs Lonigan and heroin addict Frankie Machine. FTPE:
Name this city that is the setting of novels like The Man with the Golden Arm and The Jungle.
This poet of “Fog” wrote that Chicago was “Hog-Butcher for the World, Tool maker, Stacker of Wheat.”  This man’s poem “Grass” begins, “Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo.”
This Saul Bellow novel begins “I am an American, Chicago-born.”  In this novel, the title character works in Einhorn’s dog parlor and travels with Stella to Mexico.
Chicago
Carl Sandburg
The Adventures of Augie March
The first winner of the Nobel Prize in literature from this country was Selma Lagerlof in 1909. FTPE:
What country also produced Astrid Lindgren, author of the Pippi Longstocking stories?
This intense Swedish playwright wrote intense plays like The Ghost Sonata and Miss Julie.
Par Lagerkvist won the 1951 Nobel partly for this novel about the thief who was released from crucifixion in Jesus’s place, but who is later crucified in Rome. Lame!
Sweden
August Strindberg
Barabbas
This poem’s reading at the Six Gallery in 1956 caused a ruckus. FTPE:
What free verse classic of the Beat Generation begins, “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness”?
Allen Ginsberg memorialized his mother Naomi in this poem titled for a Jewish prayer for the dead.
Ginsberg wrote a poem about his search for the Wichita Vortex using this Buddhist word for a scriptural writing in the title. He also wrote one about a sunflower.
“Howl”
“Kaddish”
sutra
One work with this title centers on Dorrigo Evans, who works on a "Death Railway," and another work with this title states "every day is a journey, and the journey itself is home." FTPE:
Name the title shared by a Basho collection of travel writings and a Richard Flanagan novel.
The poet Basho is best-known for his works in this form of Japanese poetry, which often mention a season of the year and always contain three lines of five, seven, and five syllables.
Richard Flanagan is from this country, which is also the birthplace of the author of Schindler's Ark, Thomas Keneally, and the author of "Waltzing Matilda," Banjo Paterson.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North
haikus [or haikai]
Australia
A poem set in this type of location begins, “The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.” FTPE:
That poem set in one of these locations in the country was written by a poet who was part of a group of British poets nicknamed for writing melancholy poems often set in these places.
The poem mentioned above is “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard” by this English poet who also wrote about the drowning of a cat in a goldfish bowl.
In the “Elegy,” the persona wonders if there might be buried some unknown poet he calls a “mute inglorious” version of this important English poet, author of “Lycidas.”
graveyard [or churchyard; or cemetery; or burial ground; or equivalents]
Thomas Gray
John Milton
This story involves a punishment given to an Arthurian knight who raped a woman. FTPE:
What Canterbury Tale is told by Alisoun, whose name obliquely references the fact she’s been married five times?
In “The Wife of Bath’s Tale,” Guinevere tells the knight accused of rape that he has one year to find an answer to this question; the answer apparently is “dominance over men.”
The Canterbury Tales were written by this author of The House of Fame.
Wife of Bath’s Tale
What do woman want? (accept clear variants, like “What do women truly desire?”)
Geoffrey Chaucer
This poem begins "Sexual intercourse began / In nineteen sixty-three / (which was rather late for me) / Between the end of the "Chatterley" ban / And the Beatles' first LP." For 10 points each:
Name this Philip Larkin poem whose title is Latin for "wonderful year."
"Annus Mirabilis" also titles a poem about the year 1666 by this man, who represented the Catholic Church and the Church of England by the titular animals in The Hind and the Panther.
Dryden's poem "Annus Mirabilis" detailed this event that started in Pudding Lane, which was also written about by Samuel Pepys [PEEPS] in his diary.
"Annus Mirabilis" [muh-RAB-uh-lis]
John Dryden
Great Fire of London [accept equivalents]
John Ashbery described this appendage “thrust at the viewer” in his poem “Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.” FTPE:
What part of the body does Ashbery’s speaker describe as “bigger than the head” in that reflection?
This experimental American poet ended one work with the line “nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands,” eschewing capitalization, as was his custom.
Another cummings poem describes how this relation of the speaker “moved through dooms of love.” The speaker of Robert Hayden’s “Those Winter Sundays” remembers how this relation woke up early to build a fire.
hand
e.e. cummings
father
John Updike’s novel comprising the Reverend Tom Marshfield’s journal entries is titled for a “month of” this day of the week. FTPE:
A morning on what day of the week titles a Wallace Stevens poem in which a woman enjoys “late/Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair” rather than the “hush of ancient sacrifice”?
Stevens is slightly better known for a poem describing the “emperor of” this sweet treat.
Stevens wrote a poem about these lowly creatures at “heaven’s gate,” while Hamlet told Claudius how these creatures can eventually make a progress through a king.
Sunday
ice cream
worms
This poem includes a refrain describing women who “come and go/Talking of Michelangelo.” FTPE:
The speaker of what poem by T.S. Eliot wonders if he dares to “eat a peach” and apparently never asks a woman the question he had hoped to?
At the poem’s end, Prufrock notes that he has heard these female mythological creatures singing “each to each” but doesn’t think they will sing to him.
Prufrock notes he was afraid when he saw this personification of death, which he describes as this type of attendant who might help one out of a carriage.
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”
mermaids
Eternal footman
This author directed his friend Max Brod to burn his unfinished works after his death, but thankfully Brod didn’t. FTPE:
What Czech author depicted Gregor Samsa’s unexplained awakening as a vermin in The Metamorphosis?
Kafka presents interminable proceedings leading to the stabbing execution of this character with a surname given by only a single letter in The Trial.
The title character of this allegorical Kafka work is replaced by a panther after he starves himself to death in a cage for audiences.
Franz Kafka
Josef K. [both required; prompt on partial answer]
“A Hunger Artist”
Unferth insults this person, who responds by mentioning his swimming contest with Breca. FTPE:
Name this literary character who helps Hrothgar by killing the monster Grendel.
Beowulf was written in this language, which was also used for the works in the Exeter Book.
A new verse translation of Beowulf was created in 2001 by this Irish poet, whose collection Death of a Naturalist contains the poems "Digging" and "Mid-Term Break."
Beowulf
Old English [prompt on "English"]
Seamus Heaney
An illicit relationship between a white policeman and a black woman is at the heart of this man’s novel Too Late the Phalarope. FTPE:
What author described the eventual execution of Absalom Kumalo for the killing of Arthur Jarvis in the novel Cry, the Beloved Country?
Alan Paton’s Cry, the Beloved Country is set in this country. Another very important author from this country is Breyten Breytenbach, who opposed apartheid.
Nadine Gordimer, yet another South African writer, depicted a fictional civil war between blacks and whites in this novel, in which the title character tries to protect the white Smales family.
Alan Paton
South Africa
July’s People
This poem avers “That age is best which is the first,/When youth and blood are warmer.” FTPE:
What Robert Herrick poem advises the title inexperienced lovers to “go marry” because “Old Time is still a flying”?
“To the Virgins” begins by telling the addressees to gather these flower parts while they can.
Herrick’s major poetry collection has this name, which it shares with a garden in which the namesake females keep golden apples.
“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time”
rosebuds
Hesperides
In a letter, John Steinbeck wrote that he didn’t give this female character a name because he saw her function as being “a foil . . . and a threat to Lennie.” FTPE:
What character referred to partly by her husband’s name is choked to death by Lennie in a 1937 novel?
Spoiler alert: George shoots Lennie at the end of this novel by John Steinbeck.
George’s mercy shooting of Lennie is presaged by Carlson’s killing of the dog belonging to this one-handed old man who wishes to buy land with Lennie and George.
Curley’s wife [accept equivalents]
Of Mice and Men
Candy
The geometer Meton offers to create a plan for this fictional city. FTPE:
Pisthetaerus urges the title characters to build what city in the sky in the ancient play The Birds?
This Greek author of comedic plays wrote The Birds, as well as The Clouds and Lysistrata.
In Aristophanes’s play The Wasps, Philocleon is “addicted” to these proceedings, one of which is staged between two dogs, one of whom accuses the other of stealing a Sicilian cheese.
cloud cuckoo land (or Nephelococcygia from clever Demetrios)
Aristophanes
trials (accept reasonable equivalents, I reckon)
This 1664 play is subtitled “The Hypocrite.” FTPE:
In what French play does Orgon finally realize that the title pious fraud has deceived him?
Tartuffe is probably the best-known play by this French author of The Misanthrope.
Harpagon is the skinflint title character of this Moliere play; in the end he keeps his casket of money but his son Cleante marries Mariane.
Tartuffe
Moliere (or Jean Baptiste Poquelin from smartyboots)
The Miser or L’Avare
This poem is preceded by the name of the Italian city of Ferrara, functioning as an indicator of setting. FTPE:
What poem includes the duke’s admission that he “gave commands” for his young wife to be killed?
“My Last Duchess” was written by this husband of the poet Elizabeth Barrett, who also wrote “Fra Lippo Lippi” and “Porphyria’s Lover.”
“My Last Duchess” ends with the duke asking his listener to admire a sculpture of this Roman god of the sea taming a sea horse.
“My Last Duchess”
Robert Browning
Neptune
One literary work written in this form details Poprischin’s descent into insanity. FTPE:
What is this type of first-person writing usually meant to be kept private, one recent popular example of which was titled for the character Bridget Jones?
Much of this short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman is presented as diary entries by the narrator as she loses her mental stability during her husband’s effort at a rest cure.
Another novel taking the form of a diary is Journal of the Plague Year by this British author, who also had his title character Robinson Crusoe briefly keep a journal.
diary
“The Yellow Wallpaper”
Daniel Defoe
In “The Shadow over Innsmouth” this figure is described by the Deep Ones as waiting and dreaming in Ril’yeh. FTPE:
The “call” of what foul, green figure, described as having a face featuring octopus tentacles, titles a story by the American author of At the Mountains of Madness.
Cthulhu is one of the best known creations of this racist weirdo author whose works, including “The Dunwich Horror” and “Herbert West: Reanimator,” were recently collected by the Library of America.
The horrible Shug-Niggurath (nee-gure-oth) of the Lovecraft pantheon has an epithet calling her this kind of animal with a thousand young.
Cthulhu (ka-thoo-loo)
H. P. Lovecraft
black goat
The Acmeists were a group of early 20th-century poets from this country. FTPE:
The Acmeists, including Osip Mandelstam, wrote a “cool” poetry that contrasted with the more passionate language of Andrei Bely and what country’s Symbolist movement?
Akhmatova’s poem “Requiem” laments the imprisonment and killing of Russians, including her own son Lev Gumilov, by this Soviet leader.
This mid-century Russian poet declared he is an “Anne Frank” or Dreyfus in his poem “Babi Yar” about a slaughter of Jews by the Soviets in World War II.
Soviet Union (we’ll accept “Russia” in Orlando--up to other sites to do so)
Josef Stalin
Yevgeny Yevtushenko
This author’s massive four-volume novel Joseph and His Brothers isn’t much read these days. FTPE:
What German wrote the much more commonly read novella Death in Venice?
Von Aschenbach succumbs to cholera in Venice after pining terribly for this beautiful Polish boy.
Mann’s massive tale of Hans Castorp’s seven-year visit to a sanatorium in Switzerland has this title.
Thomas Mann
Tadzio
The Magic Mountain (or Der Zauberberg from Clever Hans)
Jonathan Harker is sent to this character's castle to complete a real estate transaction. FTPE:
Name this character who is later chased around Eastern Europe by Van Helsing and others.
The novel Dracula was written by this author, who also wrote The Lair of the White Worm.
This character from Dracula is referred to as the "Bloofer Lady" in newspapers after turning into a vampire. Her fiancé Arthur Holmwood plunges a stake through her heart.
Count Dracula
Abraham "Bram" Stoker
Lucy Westenra [accept either]
This body of water’s real-life 1927 flood provides the backdrop to a short novel. FTPE:
William Faulkner’s novella “Old Man” depicts a convict who helps a woman give birth during a flood of what river that shares its name with the state with which Faulkner is most associated?
The speaker of this Langston Hughes poem describes hearing “the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln/went down to New Orleans.”
The allegorical novel The Confidence-Man, by this 19th-century author, is set on a steamboat on the Mississippi.
Mississippi River
“The Negro Speaks of Rivers”
Herman Melville
This compilation of stories includes “The Hunchback’s Tale” and “The Three Apples.” FTPE:
What is this collection of originally oral tales from around the Middle East, North Africa, Persia, and India which are told by Scheherazade to Shariyar?
The device in which an outside narrative involves a person telling stories that are then related as a “story within the story” is referred to by this term.
The stories of this adventurer, who has his ship destroyed by huge birds called Rocs and who kills the Old Man of the Sea after serving as his slave, were added to Western versions of the One Thousand and One Nights in the 18th century.
One Thousand and One Nights or Arabian Nights
frame story or narrative or device (accept “framing” with any of those)
Sinbad the Sailor
This author’s early short story “Defender of the Faith” was collected in Goodbye, Columbus. FTPE:
What American writer created the alter-ego Nathan Zuckerman in books like The Ghost Writer.
Roth’s first major fame came after the publication of this 1969 novel, in which the title character, Alexander, describes his interior life to Dr. Spielvogel.
One of Roth’s Zuckerman novels is titled for this city’s orgy; Roth himself traveled to this central European capital to champion writers like Milan Kundera.
Philip Roth
Portnoy’s Complaint
Prague
Novelist Roberto Bolaño lived till age 15 in this country and wrote a book titled “By Night in [this country]. FTPE:
What South American country also produced the author of The House of the Spirits, Isabel Allende?
As nearly every quiz bowl tournament will remind you, this Chilean poet repeats the line “in you everything sank” in his “Song of Despair, which he paired with twenty love songs.
Neruda wrote that “Lives like maize were threshed in the bottomless/granary of wasted deeds” in a poem named for the “heights of” this Inca city.
Chile
Pablo Neruda
Macchu Picchu
This poet extolled the beauty of “Lesbia,” who was based on the sister of P. Clodius Pulcher. FTPE:
What classical poet lamented the loss of his brother in a poem ending “Ave atque vale”?
Catullus wrote in this language used by Vergil for The Aeneid.
Catullus’s use of “Lesbia” to refer to Clodia evokes this earlier Greek poet from the island of Lesbos who was hailed as the “Tenth Muse.”
Gaius Valerius Catullus
Latin
Sappho
In a long essay, this person used the fictional Judith, Shakespeare’s sister, to illustrate the obstacles women writers face. FTPE:
What British novelist created a title character who lives for 300 more years after changing sex from male to female in the novel Orlando?
What essay by Woolf, the title of which refers to a place where a woman could safely write, was referenced in this bonus’s opener?
Woolf’s novel The Waves is emblematic of much of her work in this literary movement of the 1920s and 30s, characterized by “art for art’s sake” and dense, allusive writing often featuring the use of stream of consciousness.
Virginia Woolf
“A Room of One’s Own”
Modernism
In a Hemingway novel, Jake Barnes and Bill Gorton travel to Burguete in the Pyrenees to engage in this activity. FTPE:
What is this common Hemingway pastime which Nick Barnes does while thinking about World War I in the story “Big Two-Hearted River”?
Barnes appears in this Hemingway novel which begins by noting that “Robert Cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of Princeton.”
This aristocratic woman in The Sun Also Rises dallies with the bullfighter Pedro Romero before announcing she plans to return to Mike Campbell at the end of the novel.
fishing [or angling if there are old English people playing]
The Sun Also Rises
Lady Brett Ashley [accept either]
People in this social position were depicted in a collection of stories called A Sportsman’s Sketches. FTPE:
What was this low social status of people whose “dead souls” were collected in a novel by Nikolai Gogol?
This Russian author wrote A Sportsman’s Sketches and Fathers and Sons.
This is the character who plots to turn dead souls into rubles in the novel Dead Souls.
serfs (prompt on “peasants” and don’t accept “slaves”)
Ivan Turgenev [first and last name required from Matt Jackson]
Chichikov
Twentieth bonuses can be hard. Answer the following about Bruno Schulz FTPE:
Schulz was killed by a jagoff Gestapo agent in the Drohobycz Ghetto in this country, where he lived his entire life.
Schulz is best known for a collection of short stories named for the “street of” these reptiles whose “tears” are used to refer to fake sadness.
Schulz’s three linked stories about tailors’ dummies use this folkloric figure with a Germanic name, one’s disturbing look-alike, often a harbinger of bad luck.
Poland
crocodiles
doppleganger
This author was stabbed in the neck by a member of the Muslim Brotherhood in 1996. FTPE:
What Egyptian author of the Midaq Alley won the 1988 Nobel Prize in Literature?
Mahfouz thus became the first author to write primarily in this language to win a literature Nobel.
Kemal, protagonist of much of Mahfouz’s Cairo Trilogy, suffers from this disease, as does the protagonist of Dumas fils’ novel The Lady of the Camelias.
Naguib Mahfouz
Arabic
tuberculosis
